<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0147"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">147</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001476">Simple Prostatectomy</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle0010">Open and Robot-Assisted Laparoscopic Approaches</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Misop Han, and Alan W. Partin</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">benign prostatic hyperplasia; open; robotic; simple prostatectomy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>

<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch147_assessments.xhtml" height="610"></iframe>

</div>


<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0055">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0255"></a>1. Of the indications for simple prostatectomy—(a) acute urinary retention, (b) recurrent or persistent urinary tract infections, (c) significant symptoms of bladder outlet obstruction not responsive to medical therapy, (d) persistent gross hematuria from the prostate, (e) pathologic changes of the kidneys secondary to prostatic obstruction, and (f) bladder calculi—the only absolute indication for prostatectomy is pathologic changes of the kidneys secondary to prostatic obstruction. All the others are relative indications because they may on occasion be corrected without the need for simple prostatectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0260"></a>2. One should not consider doing a simple prostatectomy for glands of less than 75 g. A simple prostatectomy on small glands carries a high complication rate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0265"></a>3. Simple prostatectomy should be considered in patients who cannot be placed in the lithotomy position and who have a sufficiently large gland that can be enucleated. Small fibrous glands, the presence of significant prostate cancer, previous prostatectomy, and pelvic surgery are contraindications to open simple prostatectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0270"></a>4. Although a cystoscopic examination is not indicated for routine evaluation of obstructive voiding symptoms, one must estimate the size of the prostate adenoma preoperatively to schedule the patient appropriately. Cystoscopy may be a crucial component of that estimation. Moreover, in patients who have hematuria or a urethral stricture, or in whom one needs to evaluate a known bladder calculus or diverticulum, cystoscopy is indicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0275"></a>5. The risks of simple prostatectomy include urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction, retrograde ejaculation, urinary tract infections, bladder neck contracture, urethral stricture, and the need for a blood transfusion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0280"></a>6. Suprapubic simple prostatectomy is ideally suited for patients with a large median lobe protruding into the bladder, a clinically significant bladder diverticulum that requires repair, or large bladder calculi. It also may be preferable for obese men, in whom it is difficult to gain direct access to the prostatic pseudocapsule and dorsal vein complex.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0285"></a>7. Continuous bladder irrigation and blood transfusion are less frequently used following robot-assisted laparoscopic simple prostatectomy.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_570"></span>
</body>
</html>
