<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0149"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">149</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900149X">Prostate Cancer Biomarkers</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Todd M. Morgan, Ganesh S. Palapattu, and Simpa S. Salami</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">biomarkers; genetics; genomics; prostate cancer; risk stratification</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>

<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch149_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>

</div>




<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0090">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0465"></a>1. Prostate–specific membrane antigen (PSMA) has been identified in the central nervous system, intestine, and prostate and currently serves as an important target for advanced molecular imaging.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0470"></a>2. PSA is a member of the human kallikrein gene family. PSA and human kallikrein-2 have been used in prostate cancer detection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0475"></a>3. Ectopic expression of PSA occurs in breast tissue, adrenal, and renal carcinomas.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0480"></a>4. PSA is organ specific not disease specific; its half-life is 2 to 3 days.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0485"></a>5. 5α-Reductase inhibitors reduce serum PSA by 50%.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0490"></a>6. Prostate cancer cells make less PSA than normal prostate tissue, gram for gram. PSA expression is strongly influenced by androgens. Ejaculation can lead to a false increase in PSA.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0495"></a>7. Seventy percent of serum PSA is bound to three proteins: α<sub>2</sub>-macroglobulin, API, and ACT. Patients with prostate cancer have a higher fraction of circulating PSA bound to these proteins (i.e., they have a lower free PSA).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0500"></a>8. When PSA is released from the cell, a portion of an attached amino acid chain is cleaved, leaving a smaller amino acid chain attached, which inactivates its biologic activity. This molecule is termed proPSA. When this amino acid chain is cleaved from proPSA, PSA becomes active as a serum protease. ProPSA may be used to diagnose prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0505"></a>9. PCA-3 is a urine-based marker used in the diagnosis of prostate cancer. It can be combined with detection of the TMPRSS2:ERG gene fusion to improve diagnostic accuracy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0510"></a>10. Circulating tumor cells and circulating tumor DNA are promising sources of biomarkers, particularly in advanced prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0515"></a>11. Tissue-based gene expression signatures are commercially available and can be performed on small amounts of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue and may provide additional prognostic information beyond Gleason score and other clinical parameters.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0520"></a>12. Prostate cancer susceptibility genes that have been located on a number of chromosomes increase the risk of developing prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0525"></a>13. Key inherited genes with moderate penetrance that increase the risk of aggressive prostate cancer are BRCA1, BRCA2, and ATM. These are all DNA damage repair genes.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_575"></span><span id="pagebreak_576"></span>
</body>
</html>
