<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0072"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">72</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000720">Surgery for Erectile Dysfunction</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Matthew J. Mellon, and John J. Mulcahy</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">treatment of erectile dysfunction; penile implant complications; penile implant insertion; penile implant; penile prosthesis</div>
</section>
<section>
 
<section>
	<span id="s0010"></span>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<!-- <h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0020">Answers</h2> -->
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch072_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
<div id="p0280"></div>
 
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0065">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0320"></a>1. The size of the erect penis after surgery will likely be shorter and thinner than preoperatively.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0325"></a>2. The implant provides only a firm penis suitable for intercourse.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0330"></a>3. Penile sensation and ejaculation may both be diminished postoperatively.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0335"></a>4. There will be varying degrees of postoperative pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0340"></a>5. Reoperation for a mechanical problem with the implant may be necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0345"></a>6. Tissue problems such as infection may necessitate another surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0350"></a>7. There are other treatments of ED such as pills, penile inserts and injections, and vacuum erection devices (VEDs).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0355"></a>8. There is a variety of implants including three-piece and two-piece inflatables and semirigid rods.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0360"></a>9. The three-piece inflatable implants give the best rigidity and flaccidity and are by far the most popular among both patients and urologists.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0365"></a>10. A shorter size to the erection following penile implant placement is the major reason for disappointment after surgery, and should be stressed in the informed consent.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0370"></a>11. Patients with limited dexterity should be encouraged to choose a semirigid rod implant to avoid frustration, when trying to manipulate the pump of a hydraulic device.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0375"></a>12. Injuries between the corpus cavernosum and the exterior should always be closed securely before an implant cylinder is left in place.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0380"></a>13. Placing a cylinder that does not expand in length will usually adequately straighten a curved erection in patients with tunica albuginea scaring, i.e., Peyronie disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0385"></a>14. Always keep the distal end of scissors or dilating instruments pointing dorsolaterally and parallel to the penile shaft to avoid crural crossover and urethral injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0390"></a>15. In the presence of a penile implant infection, all foreign material should be removed from the wound, as remnant parts may harbor microbes that perpetuate the infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0395"></a>16. In patients at risk for reduced penile vascular perfusion, be aware that distal necrosis can occur. Limit or stage aggressive reconstructive procedures in such patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0400"></a>17. Place the implant reservoir in a capacious cavity to avoid injuring surrounding structures such as bladder or bowel when the balloon expands as it is filled with isotonic saline.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="pagebreak_270"></span>
</body>
</html>
