<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0145"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">145</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001452">Evaluation and Nonsurgical Management of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Paolo Capogrosso, Andrea Salonia, and Francesco Montorsi</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">benign prostatic hyperplasia; lower urinary tract symptoms; medical therapy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>



    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch145_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>

</div>

<div>
<div>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0220">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1410"></a>1. Assessing symptom severity is the first step in the workup of patients with LUTSs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1415"></a>2. The PSA test should be considered for patients with a life expectancy longer than 10 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1420"></a>3. Ultrasound imaging and uroflowmetry should be performed for patients with moderate to severe symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1425"></a>4. Invasive urodynamic tests should be considered if bladder motility alterations (e.g., detrusor overactivity, detrusor underactivity) are suspected.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1430"></a>5. Conservative management is the preferred approach for patients with mild symptoms and without complicating factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1435"></a>6. Watchful waiting is based on patient education, lifestyle interventions, and disease monitoring.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1440"></a>7. Lifestyle modifications include proper daily fluid intake, tea, caffeine, and alcohol avoidance/restriction, and concurrent medication adjustment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1445"></a>8. Patients should be followed up yearly to detect worsening of symptoms or the occurrence of complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1450"></a>9. α1-Blockers are the first line treatment for patients with moderate to severe LUTSs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1455"></a>10. The uroselective α1-blockers tamsulosin, silodosin, and alfuzosin showed the best tolerability profile.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1460"></a>11. 5-ARIs are effective in reducing the risk of disease progression and the need for invasive treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1465"></a>12. Patients with predominant storage symptoms may benefit from a combination therapy with antimuscarinic drugs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1470"></a>13. PDE5is are effective in relieving LUTSs, either alone or in combination with α1-blockers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1475"></a>14. There is no consensus on the efficacy of phytotherapy for LUTS treatment, although encouraging results have been published for the hexane extract of <span class="italic">S. repens</span> and for the combination of <span class="italic">S. repens</span> with lycopene and selenium.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1480"></a>15. Acute urinary retention (AUR) is a common complication of benign prostatic hyperplasia progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1485"></a>16. A trial without catheter (TWOC) is the preferred management after initial decompression by bladder catheterization.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1490"></a>17. The use of α1-blockers is recommended to increase the odds of a successful TWOC.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1495"></a>18. Dutasteride and finasteride have been shown to significantly decrease the risk of AUR in patients with moderate to severe LUTSs.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_562"></span><span id="pagebreak_563"></span><span id="pagebreak_564"></span><span id="pagebreak_565"></span>
</body>
</html>
