<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0047"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">47</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000471">Management of Abnormalities of the Genitalia in Girls</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Martin Kaefer</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">clitoris; complete androgen insensitivity syndrome; congenital adrenal hyperplasia; disorders of sexual differentiation; female circumcision; Gartner duct cyst; Herlyn-Werner-Wunderlich syndrome; imperforate hymen; infibulation; labial adhesions; Male genital embryology; MRKH syndrome; neovagina; prolapsed ureterocele; rhabdomyosarcoma; transverse vaginal septum; urethral prolapse; vagina; vaginal atresia; vaginal genesis</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch047_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>


<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0075">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0395"></a>1. Remnants of the prostatic ducts give rise to the Skene glands; remnants of the Wolffian ducts give rise to the Gartner ducts.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0400"></a>2. The Bartholin glands are homologues of the bulbourethral glands in the male.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0405"></a>3. The proximal portion of the vagina forms from the fused paired Müllerian ducts; the distal portion forms from the sinovaginal bulbs, which later canalize.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0410"></a>4. Clitoral hypertrophy in the newborn should suggest congenital adrenal hyperplasia; other etiologies include neurofibromatosis and an androgen-producing tumor in the mother.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0415"></a>5. A small clitoris may be seen in androgen insensitivity syndrome.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0420"></a>6. In planning treatment for a transverse vaginal septum, it is of critical importance to determine whether there is a cervix and, if present, its exact location relative to the septum.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0425"></a>7. Vaginal atresia differs from vaginal agenesis and testicular feminization in that the Müllerian structures are not affected. As a result, the uterus, cervix, and upper portion of the vagina are normal. In vaginal agenesis the uterus is generally absent or rudimentary; there are often associated renal and skeletal abnormalities.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0430"></a>8. A complication of the use of skin grafts to create a neovagina is the increased incidence of vaginal stenosis and the requirement for repeated vaginal dilatation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0435"></a>9. Most anomalies of lateral fusion have no functional significance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0440"></a>10. When an interlabial mass appears to be associated with the urethra, workup should always include renal pelvic ultrasonography.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0445"></a>11. Urethral prolapse appears as a doughnut-shaped mass with the urethral orifice in the center; a mass lateral to the orifice may be a paraurethral cyst, a prolapsed ureterocele, a urethral polyp, or an ectopic ureter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0450"></a>12. An imperforate hymen at birth appears as a bulge in the perineum; it may present at puberty as cyclic abdominal pain and amenorrhea.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_165"></span>
</body>
</html>
