<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0018"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">18</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000185">Urologic Considerations in Pregnancy</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Melissa R. Kaufman</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder exstrophy; hydronephrosis; myelomeningocele; placenta percreta; pregnancy; urinary physiology; urinary tract infection; urolithiasis</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch018_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0060">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0290"></a>1. Management of symptomatic physiologic hydronephrosis in the absence of other pathologies such as calculi remains a dilemma for the consulting urologist. Ureteral stent insertion in symptomatic gestational hydronephrosis does not generally add benefit over conservative treatment and should be reserved for complicated cases or additional pathologic obstructions.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0295"></a>2. Ultrasonography and MRI are the imaging techniques of choice for the pregnant patient, but they should be used prudently and only when use is expected to answer a relevant clinical question or otherwise provide medical benefit to the patient. With few exceptions, radiation exposure through radiography, CT scan, or nuclear medicine imaging techniques is at a dose much lower than the exposure associated with fetal harm. If these techniques are necessary in addition to ultrasonography or MRI or are more readily available for the diagnosis in question, they should not be withheld from a pregnant patient.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0300"></a>3. A pregnant woman should never be denied indicated surgery, regardless of trimester. If possible, nonurgent surgery should be performed in the second trimester when preterm contractions and spontaneous abortion are least likely.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0305"></a>4. Due to the tendency for the gravid uterus to compress the IVC, optimizing venous return often requires placing the pregnant surgical patient in a left lateral decubitus position when feasible. This left lateral position should be modified and considered during open, laparoscopic, and endoscopic procedures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0310"></a>5. Of pregnant patients with symptomatic calculi, the majority will pass their stones spontaneously when treated conservatively with hydration and analgesia. However, for patients requiring intervention, ureteroscopy may be performed with no significant difference in rates of urinary tract complications compared to the non-pregnant population.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0315"></a>6. Most patients with congenital conditions affecting the lower urinary tract have normal fertility and should have prenatal counseling. Complexities of pregnancy in the population with prior urinary diversion require an individualized approach. Mode of delivery is dependent on prior urinary reconstructions and patient preference, although in most cases cesarean section is preferred for the bladder exstrophy patient.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0320"></a>7. Since pregnant women with asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) remain at higher risk for development of symptomatic lower or upper urinary tract infections that may precipitate adverse fetal outcomes such as decreased birth weight and premature labor, consensus opinions indicate that pregnant women should be screened for ASB and positive cultures should be treated.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0325"></a>8. Women diagnosed antenatally with placenta percreta should be referred to a tertiary care center and managed by a multidisciplinary team that includes urologists, general surgeons, obstetric anesthesiologists, interventional radiologists, and intensivists. Urologists should carefully counsel patients regarding complexities of management and outcomes for urinary tract injury including possible urinary diversion.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_53"></span><span id="pagebreak_54"></span>
</body>
</html>
