<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0002"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">2</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000021">Evaluation of the Urologic Patient</h1>
</hgroup>

<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Testing and Imaging</h2>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Erik P. Castle, Christopher E. Wolter, and Michael Woods</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">dipstick; evaluation; hematuria; Urinalysis; uroflowmetry</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch002_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="p0930"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0010">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. A catheterized urine specimen should be obtained in the female patient with a history of recurrent urinary tract infections or suspected contaminated specimen.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. Hematuria should be stratified into glomerular, nonglomerular, medical, and surgical causes.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. A dipstick alone is inadequate for the diagnosis of microscopic hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. Asymptomatic microscopic hematuria is defined as three or greater RBC/HPF on a properly collected urinary specimen in the absence of an obvious benign cause.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. Urine dipstick positive for only leukocyte esterase or nitrites but not both should be confirmed with microscopic analysis and urine culture.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. Serum creatinine and glomerular filtration rate should be ordered when renal obstruction of nephrologic disease is suspected.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. Prostate-specific antigen is a very sensitive test for prostate conditions such as BPH and prostatitis and correlates most often with prostate volume.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. Urine cytology is not recommended during the initial evaluation and screening for asymptomatic microscopic hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. Urine cytology is very specific for high-grade urothelial carcinoma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. Uroflowmetry and assessment of postvoid residual should be ordered when lower urinary tract obstruction is suspected.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. Urodynamic studies provide information on disorders of storage and voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. Routine use of antimicrobial prophylaxis is not recommended for office cystourethroscopy, urodynamics, or cystography in the patient without risk factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0630"></a>13. Renal ultrasonography can provide basic screening information on the presence of hydronephrosis and medical renal disease but is not an adequate stand-alone study for the workup of hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0635"></a>14. CT without contrast of the abdomen and pelvis is the gold standard for detecting urinary stones.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0640"></a>15. A KUB is a useful and easy test for the follow-up of existing non-emergent radio opaque urinary stones.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_6"></span>
</body>
</html>
