<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0038"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">38</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000380">Anomalies of the Upper Urinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Brian A. VanderBrink, and Pramod P. Reddy</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">crossed fused ectopic; ectopic kidney; horseshoe kidney; renal agenesis; renal artery aneurysm</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch038_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</div>
</section>
<section>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0115">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0675"></a>1. In bilateral renal agenesis, 40% of affected infants are stillborn. The ureters are almost always absent, and the bladder is either absent or hypoplastic. The adrenal glands, however, are usually in their normal anatomic position.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0680"></a>2. In patients with bilateral renal agenesis associated with oligohydramnios, Potter facies are pathognomonic of the process. Pulmonary hypoplasia is frequently present.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0685"></a>3. Ultrasound screening is recommended for parents and siblings of infants with unilateral or bilateral renal agenesis—there is a higher risk of renal agenesis in this population.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0690"></a>4. In unilateral renal agenesis, the ipsilateral ureter is completely absent in 60% of cases. Abnormalities of the contralateral ureter are not uncommon; reproductive tract anomalies in females are also common.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0695"></a>5. With unilateral renal agenesis, 25% of the contralateral ureters reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0700"></a>6. There is an association of genital anomalies with renal ectopia. The upper pole of the ectopic kidney usually joins with the lower pole of the normal kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0705"></a>7. In all types of fusion anomalies, the ureter from each kidney is usually orthotopic.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0710"></a>8. The highest incidence of associated anomalies occurs with solitary renal ectopia. Associated anomalies in the male include cryptorchidism, and vaginal atresia or unilateral uterine anomalies in the female.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0715"></a>9. In a horseshoe kidney, the isthmus is bulky and consists of parenchymatous tissue with its own blood supply. The blood supply to a horseshoe kidney is variable.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0720"></a>10. Ureteropelvic junction obstruction in horseshoe kidneys occurs one-third of the time.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0725"></a>11. The incidence of Wilms tumors and renal pelvic tumors in horseshoe kidneys is higher than would be expected in the general population. There is no increased risk of renal cell carcinoma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0730"></a>12. Renal arteries are end arteries and, as such, have no collaterals.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0735"></a>13. Arteriovenous fistulas may result in hypertension in 50% of cases, due to relative ischemia beyond the fistula. It is renin-mediated hypertension.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0740"></a>14. Infundibulopelvic stenosis is usually bilateral and is commonly associated with vesicoureteral reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0745"></a>15. Maternal diabetes is associated with a threefold increased risk of renal agenesis and dysplasia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0750"></a>16. Patients born with renal agenesis may have decreased renal reserve in the remaining kidney, which results in a significant risk for end-stage renal disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0755"></a>17. Of adult males with absence of the vas deferens, 79% have an absent ipsilateral kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0760"></a>18. Excision of a renal artery aneurysm is recommended if (1) the hypertension cannot be easily controlled; (2) incomplete ring-like calcification is present; (3) the aneurysm is larger than 2.5 cm; (4) the patient is female and of childbearing age, because rupture during pregnancy is a likely possibility; (5) the aneurysm increases in size on serial angiograms; or (6) an arteriovenous fistula is present.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_130"></span><span id="pagebreak_131"></span>
</body>
</html>
