<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0055"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">55</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000550">Infections of the Urinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Kimberly L. Cooper, Gina M. Badalato, and Matthew P. Rutman</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">antibiotic prophylaxis for urologic procedures; asymptomatic bacteriuria; cystitis; urinary microbiome; urinary tract infections</div>
</section>
<!-- <section> -->
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a><span id="s0015"></span><span id="s0020"></span><span id="s0025"></span>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch055_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<section>
<a id="s0030"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0035">Pathology</h2>
<div id="p2100"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0330">
<li class="numlist" id="p2105">
<a id="o2080"></a>1. <span class="bold">c. Is unnecessary.</span> The figure shows numerous neutrophils within the interstitium and the renal tubules. The neutrophils in the tubules become white blood cell casts. The pathologic findings including an enlarged kidney may persist for several weeks despite appropriate treatment. There is no indication for a biopsy in this patient.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p2110">
<a id="o2085"></a>2. <span class="bold">c. Left nephrectomy.</span> The figure shows the foamy macrophages with neutrophils and cellular debris characteristic of xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis. It may be associated with renal calculi and <span class="italic">Proteus</span> infection. <span class="italic">E. coli</span> is also a common organism found in this disease. Although partial nephrectomy has been performed for a small localized mass in a functioning kidney, a left nephrectomy in this situation is likely required and is necessary to rid the patient of the infection. An associated retroperitoneal inflammatory process with thickening is not uncommon.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p2115">
<a id="o2090"></a>3. <span class="bold">d. Treat with a sulfonamide for several months.</span> <a href="#f0020">Fig. 55.3A</a> shows von Hansemann histiocytes, and <a href="#f0020">Fig. 55.3B</a> demonstrates the Michaelis-Gutmann bodies, both of which are characteristic of malakoplakia. It is thought to be infectious in origin, and therefore the treatment is an extended course of an antibiotic that achieves a high intracellular concentration.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_188"></span><span id="pagebreak_189"></span><span id="pagebreak_190"></span><span id="pagebreak_191"></span><span id="pagebreak_192"></span><span id="pagebreak_193"></span><span id="pagebreak_194"></span>
<section>
<a id="s0035"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0040">Imaging</h2>
<div id="p2120"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0335">
<li class="numlist" id="p2125">
<a id="o2095"></a>1. <span class="bold">d. Right perinephric abscess.</span> The CT scan is obtained in the late arterial to nephrographic phase of the examination (the aorta is still opacified with contrast agent), before the excretion of the contrast agent. Thus option b is incorrect. There are multiple calculi in the right kidney, which is small and atrophic, indicating a chronic process (thus option a is incorrect). There is thickening of the perinephric fascia, and gas bubbles are seen in the posterior paranephric space, extending to the right flank. In addition, there are fluid collections in the posterior paranephric space and in the soft tissues of the right flank, making option d the most likely diagnosis. Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis is a chronic inflammatory condition associated with staghorn calculi. The affected kidney is usually enlarged rather than shrunken, as is the case here (making option e unlikely).</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p2130">
<a id="o2100"></a>2. <span class="bold">e. Acute pyelonephritis.</span> The image demonstrates a pelvic kidney with wedge-shaped area of decreased enhancement, characteristic of acute pyelonephritis. Renal infarcts cause areas of poor perfusion that are more sharply defined and more poorly enhancing than in the present case (making option a unlikely). The clinical history of fever also supports an infection. With renal artery occlusion (option b) the kidney would demonstrate no enhancement. Chronic pyelonephritis causes scarring in the kidney, and the nephrogram is usually normal. The renal contour in the present case is smooth, making option c unlikely. Acute urinary obstruction (option d) is ruled out because the visualized collecting system does not appear dilated.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p2135">
<a id="o2105"></a>3. <span class="bold">a. Percutaneous drainage.</span> The image demonstrates a low-attenuation area in the posterior interpolar region of the left kidney, with perinephric fascial thickening, consistent with a renal abscess. Intravenous antimicrobial therapy with percutaneous drainage of renal abscesses is highly effective and is the treatment of choice. Antimicrobial therapy alone is unlikely to be effective, given the size of the abscess. Nephrectomy, partial nephrectomy, and surgical drainage are rarely indicated in young patients with normally functioning kidneys. Cystoscopy is not warranted.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p2140">
<a id="o2110"></a>4. <span class="bold">a. Inpatient antibiotics, Foley catheter placement, and glucose management.</span> The figure is an example of emphysematous pyelonephritis. The majority (90%) of these patients are treated with medical therapy alone, which consists of antibiotics (often parenteral), bladder drainage, and treatment of comorbid conditions such as poorly controlled diabetes. The need for surgical intervention is rare and is reserved for those cases that respond poorly to initial medical management or severe necrotizing infections.</li>
</ul>
</div>

<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="195" id="pagebreak_195"></span>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0340">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o2115"></a>1. Bacteriuria and pyuria are not synonymous with a UTI.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o2120"></a>2. UTIs are classified based on their presumed site of origin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o2125"></a>3. UTIs can be uncomplicated (occurring in healthy patients with normal urinary tracts) or complicated (associated with factors that increase the likelihood of bacteriuria and decrease the efficacy of therapy).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o2130"></a>4. UTIs are the most common bacterial infection, and, as such, make a significant impact on healthcare costs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o2135"></a>5. The incidence of bacteriuria increases with institutionalization/hospitalization as well as with pregnancy and certain comorbidities that alter lower urinary tract function or cause immunosuppression.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o2140"></a>6. To date, no clear association has been described between recurrent uncomplicated UTIs and renal sequelae such as scarring, hypertension, or progressive renal insufficiency.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o2145"></a>7. Most UTIs are caused by bacteria, usually originating from the bowel flora.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o2150"></a>8. Bacterial virulence factors, including adhesin, play a role in determining which bacteria invade and the extent of infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o2155"></a>9. Increased epithelial cell receptivity predisposes patients to recurrent UTIs and is a genotypic trait.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o2160"></a>10. Obstruction to urine flow is a key factor in increasing host susceptibility to UTIs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o2165"></a>11. Clinical presentation is critically important in considering diagnosis; results of urine testing cannot be analyzed without knowledge of signs and symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o2170"></a>12. Urine must be collected in a manner that minimizes contamination.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o2175"></a>13. Formal urinalysis is preferred over dipstick testing.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o2180"></a>14. Urine culture results provide bacterial sensitivities.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o2185"></a>15. Urine is not sterile.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o2190"></a>16. The female urinary microbiome has been identified using RNA sequencing techniques, and knowledge of these microbiota should inform UTI management and interpretation of novel culture techniques such as the expanded quantitative urine culture (EQUC) protocol.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o2195"></a>17. The prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria varies with age, sex, and comorbid conditions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o2200"></a>18. Untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria is not associated with hypertension or renal insufficiency.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o2205"></a>19. Several guidelines recommend not screening for or treating asymptomatic bacteriuria except in specific patient populations.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o2210"></a>20. Treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria contributes to development of multi-drug resistant symptomatic UTIs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o2215"></a>21. Antimicrobial resistance is increasing because of excessive utilization.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o2220"></a>22. Antimicrobial selection should be influenced by efficacy, safety, cost, and compliance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o2225"></a>23. Both the choice of the agent as well as the duration of therapy are critical in preventing the perpetuation of antimicrobial resistance as well as adverse events related to treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o2230"></a>24. Obtaining a thorough history, with emphasis on prior symptoms, urinalysis and culture results, and triggers for infections, is critical.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o2235"></a>25. Sources of possible bacterial persistence must be identified and eradicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o2240"></a>26. Imaging and cystoscopy are NOT recommended for recurrent uncomplicated UTIs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o2245"></a>27. Prevention of recurrence should focus on non-antibiotic interventions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o2250"></a>28. Acute pyelonephritis classically presents as the abrupt onset of chills, fever, and flank or costovertebral angle tenderness but can present as symptoms as mild as cystitis or as severe as sepsis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o2255"></a>29. Emphysematous pyelonephritis is a life-threatening infection diagnosed radiographically by the presence of gas in the parenchyma or collecting system and can be managed via percutaneous drainage or surgically.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o2260"></a>30. Renal abscesses are well delineated by CT and are classically managed with IV antimicrobial agents and drainage. Smaller abscesses may be amenable to conservative treatment with medical management.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o2265"></a>31. Pyonephrosis is a bacterial infection in a hydronephrotic kidney. Prompt diagnosis is critical; treatment entails intravenous antimicrobial agents and drainage of the obstructed renal unit.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o2270"></a>32. XGP is a chronic renal infection that is often found in poorly functioning renal units obstructed secondary to nephrolithiasis. XGP can be mistaken for renal tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o2275"></a>33. Malacoplakia is an unusual inflammatory disease thought to result from abnormal macrophage function. Michaelis-Gutmann bodies are lysosomal inclusion bodies that characterize this disease microscopically.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o2280"></a>34. Fournier gangrene is necrotizing fasciitis arising from the perineal skin, scrotum, urethra, or rectum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o2285"></a>35. Emergent surgical debridement and broad-spectrum antimicrobial agents are the essentials of treatment of Fournier gangrene.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o2290"></a>36. Periurethral abscess can occur secondarily to urethral stricture or catheterization; treatment entails surgical debridement, suprapubic urinary drainage, and antimicrobial agents.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o2295"></a>37. Sepsis is a clinical syndrome characterized by extremes of body temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, and WBC count that occurs in response to an infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o2300"></a>38. The principles of management of sepsis include resuscitation, supportive care, monitoring, administration of broad-spectrum antimicrobial agents, and drainage or elimination of infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0205">
<a id="o2305"></a>39. The surviving sepsis campaign and early goal-directed therapy has been shown to improve outcomes in critically ill patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0210">
<a id="o2310"></a>40. Screening for bacteriuria via urine culture should be performed in all pregnant women during the first trimester.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0215">
<a id="o2315"></a>41. The prevalence of bacteriuria does not change with the occurrence of pregnancy; however, unlike in non-pregnant women, spontaneous resolution of bacteriuria in pregnant women is unlikely.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0220">
<a id="o2320"></a>42. All pregnant women with bacteriuria should be treated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0225">
<a id="o2325"></a>43. Bacteriuria more commonly progresses to acute pyelonephritis during pregnancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0230">
<a id="o2330"></a>44. Screening for bacteriuria is not recommended in elderly patients because there is no relationship between asymptomatic bacteriuria and uncomplicated UTIs and deteriorating renal function; asymptomatic bacteriuria should not be treated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0235">
<a id="o2335"></a>45. Infections of the urinary tract may present as subtle signs, and a high index of suspicion is often required for diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0240">
<a id="o2340"></a>46. Careful aseptic insertion of the catheter and maintenance of a closed, dependent drainage system are essential to minimize development of bacteriuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0245">
<a id="o2345"></a>47. The development of catheter-associated bacteriuria is inevitable. Only symptomatic catheter-associated UTIs require treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0250">
<a id="o2350"></a>48. The majority of spinal cord–injured patients with bacteriuria are asymptomatic. Only symptomatic patients require therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0255">
<a id="o2355"></a>49. UTI in patients with spinal cord injury commonly presents as fever; flank, back, or abdominal discomfort; leakage between catheterizations; increased spasticity; malaise; lethargy; and/or cloudy, malodorous urine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0260">
<a id="o2360"></a>50. Urine culture before the initiation of empirical therapy is essential because spinal cord–injured patients often culture diverse flora with a high probability of bacterial resistance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0265">
<a id="o2365"></a>51. Clean intermittent catheterization places patients with spinal cord injury at the lowest risk for significant long-term urinary tract complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0270">
<a id="o2370"></a>52. Antimicrobial prophylaxis entails treatment with an antimicrobial agent before and for a limited time after a procedure to prevent local or systemic postprocedural infections.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0275">
<a id="o2375"></a>53. The type of procedure and competency of the host defenses determine the need for antimicrobial prophylaxis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0280">
<a id="o2380"></a>54. Special considerations for antimicrobial prophylaxis include patients undergoing TRUS-Bx, those with a risk of endocarditis and bacteriuria, and patients with indwelling orthopedic hardware.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="f0010"></span><span id="f0015"></span><span id="f0020"></span><span id="f0025"></span><span id="f0030"></span><span id="f0035"></span><span id="f0040"></span>
</body>
</html>
