<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0157"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">157</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001579">Radiation Therapy for Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Ryan Phillips, Sarah Hazell,, and Daniel Y. Song</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">brachytherapy; prostate cancer; radiotherapy</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_601"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch157_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0075">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0315"></a>1. The advantage of brachytherapy is that there is a rapid falloff of dose within a few millimeters of the seed implant.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0320"></a>2. A pretreatment PSA velocity of greater than 2 ng/mL/yr is associated with an increased risk of biochemical failure following radiation therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0325"></a>3. The American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) definition of failure following radiation therapy is three consecutive rises in PSA following the nadir. It is recommended that these determinations be obtained 3 to 4 months apart. The Phoenix definition of failure is a 2 ng/mL or more increase in PSA above the nadir.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0330"></a>4. A PSA nadir of less than 0.5 ng/mL is correlated with successful treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0335"></a>5. PSA nadir is the strongest predictor of outcome.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0340"></a>6. Approximately 50% of potent men are impotent at 5 years following conformal external beam radiation therapy; 10% will have some rectal bleeding. Less common complications include urinary and fecal incontinence, hemorrhagic cystitis, and urethral stricture.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0345"></a>7. Conformal radiation therapy (CRT) uses a computerized algorithm to conform the dose of radiation to the contours of the prostate.<a id="pg602"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="602" id="pagebreak_602"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0350"></a>8. IMRT uses a set of radiation beams with changing intensities distributed across the field.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0355"></a>9. When IMRT is compared with CRT, lower doses are delivered to critical tissues such as rectum, bladder, and small bowel.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0360"></a>10. Heavy particle beams such as neutrons and protons exhibit a Bragg effect. This is manifested by a sharp falloff beyond the particle’s tissue range, thus delivering little radiation beyond that point.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0365"></a>11. <sup>125</sup>I has a half-life of approximately 60 days; palladium-103 has a half-life of 17 days.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0370"></a>12. Treatment of impending spinal cord compression due to prostate cancer consists of immediate ablation of androgens (most effectively accomplished by bilateral orchiectomy), steroids, and radiation therapy. Occasionally a decompression laminectomy is required emergently.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0375"></a>13. The dose delivered to the prostate with IMRT is 75 to 79 Gy; for brachytherapy with <sup>125</sup>I is 140 to 160 Gy; and for <sup>103</sup>Pd is 110 to 125 Gy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0380"></a>14. Pretreatment risk stratification may be divided as follows: low risk—T1c-T2a, PSA less than 10 ng/mL and no Gleason score higher than 6; intermediate risk—T2b, PSA 10 to 20 ng/mL or Gleason score of 7; and high risk—T2c, PSA greater than 20 ng/mL or Gleason score greater than 7.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0385"></a>15. The percentage of positive biopsies and the PSA velocity have also been used for risk stratification.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0390"></a>16. Radiation causes significant changes in cell architecture that can make interpretation of biopsy specimens after radiation therapy difficult.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0395"></a>17. At present there does not appear to be any advantage of proton therapy over conventional photon IMRT.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0400"></a>18. Radium-223 used to treat metastatic prostate cancer to bone is an alpha particle emitter and as such there is less damage to hematopoietic marrow elements when compared with strontium-89.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0405"></a>19. A postradiation treatment biopsy of the prostate should be interpretable 30 months after completion of treatment.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>

</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="s0020"></span><span id="f0010"></span>
</body>
</html>
