<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0080"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">80</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900080X">Tumors of the Urethra</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Christopher B. Anderson, and James M. McKiernan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">inguinal lymph nodes; radical cystectomy; squamous cell carcinoma; urethral cancer; urethrectomy</div>
</section>
<section>
 
<section>
	<span id="s0010"></span>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch080_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
<div id="p0525"></div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0105">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0605"></a>1. The prognosis of distal anterior male posterior urethral cancer (PUC) is better than that of proximal anterior PUC, which is often associated with local invasion and distant metastasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0610"></a>2. Multimodal therapy should be considered for advanced urethral tumors given the poor outcomes after surgery and radiation alone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0615"></a>3. The benefit from prophylactic inguinal lymph node dissection has not been demonstrated in anterior urethral cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0620"></a>4. Primary posterior urethral carcinoma is rare, and noninvasive tumors can be effectively managed with transurethral resection of the prostate and BCG.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0625"></a>5. The three most common histologies for female urethral cancer are urothelial carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0630"></a>6. Compared to anterior urethral cancers, posterior cancers present at a more advanced stage and are associated with worse survival.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0635"></a>7. Radiation and surgical excision are both options for low-stage anterior tumors, each with high cure rates.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0640"></a>8. Surgery and radiation therapy for proximal female urethral tumors have poor outcomes when used alone, therefore multimodal therapy is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0645"></a>9. Male urethral recurrence after radical cystectomy is rare, but more common with prostatic involvement, a positive urethral margin, and cutaneous diversions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0650"></a>10. The primary risk factors for female urethral recurrences are bladder neck involvement and a positive urethral margin.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0655"></a>11. Most surgeons will proceed with orthotopic neobladder if an intraoperative frozen section of the urethral margin is negative.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0660"></a>12. After urethrectomy in patients with orthotopic neobladders, bowel from the neobladder can often be reconfigured and used for a cutaneous diversion.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="pagebreak_307"></span><span id="pagebreak_308"></span>
</body>
</html>
