<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0025"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">25</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000252">Infection and Inflammation of the Pediatric Genitourinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Christopher S. Cooper, and Douglas W. Storm</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">evaluation; pathogenesis; pediatric; treatment; UTI</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch025_assessments.xhtml" height="600"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0165">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1025"></a>1. UTIs cause abnormally elevated renal pelvic pressures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1030"></a>2. Clinical symptoms correlate poorly with bacterial localization in the urinary tract.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1035"></a>3. Microbial lipopolysaccharides trigger urothelial receptors (Toll-like receptors) to activate the innate local immune system, activating cytokines, chemokines, and neutrophils.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1040"></a>4. For children, when performing intermittent catheterization, neither sterile or single-use lubricated catheters nor antimicrobial prophylaxis is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1045"></a>5. In teenage females, sexually transmitted infections may progress to pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility, and chronic pelvic pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1050"></a>6. Suprapubic bladder aspiration is the most reliable method of determining whether a UTI is present.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1055"></a>7. Elevated C-reactive protein and procalcitonin have been associated with acute pyelonephritis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1060"></a>8. Children with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency should not be given nitrofurantoin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1065"></a>9. Children with gross polynephritic nephropathy (reflux nephropathy) have a 10% to 20% risk of hypertension.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1070"></a>10. Significant proteinuria is a routine finding in patients with VUR who have progressive deterioration of renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1075"></a>11. Adenovirus is the most common cause of acute viral hemorrhagic cystitis in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1080"></a>12. Any catheter that has been left in place for more than 4 days will result in infected urine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1085"></a>13. Mechanisms possessed by bacteria to promote their ability to cause a UTI include bacterial adhesion facilitated by pili, access to iron, production of hemolysin, capsular polysaccharides that interfere with the host’s ability to detect antigen, and biofilms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1090"></a>14. Age of first UTI, a mother with a history of UTI, and the presence of certain blood group antigens are risk factors for women for recurrent UTIs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1095"></a>15. Bladder and bowel dysfunction (dysfunctional elimination syndrome) contribute to UTI. Correcting the dysfunction reduces the recurrence of UTI and improves VUR resolution.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1100"></a>16. Urethritis can be caused by <span class="italic">Neisseria gonorrhoeae</span>, <span class="italic">Chlamydia trachomatis</span>, and <span class="italic">Ureaplasma urealyticum.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1105"></a>17. More than 5 to 10 white blood cells per high-power field is required for the diagnosis of UTI; a positive culture confirms the diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1110"></a>18. A febrile UTI in a newborn or young infant requires hospitalization and parenteral antibiotics.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1115"></a>19. For a febrile UTI, antibiotics should be given for 7 to 14 days; for afebrile cystitis, a 2- to 4-day course is sufficient.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1120"></a>20. Renal dysplasia occurs with VUR and on DMSA scan dysplasia may be mistaken for a renal scar.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1125"></a>21. Urinary nitrite is reduced from dietary nitrates in the urine by gram-negative enteric bacteria. This conversion requires several hours to occur; thus a first morning urine gives the best sensitivity with the nitrite dipstick test. Frequent voiding may cause a false-negative test.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1130"></a>22. Neonates and young infants should be covered for <span class="italic">Enterococcus</span> species when choosing empiric antibiotics.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1135"></a>23. In the first year of life, boys have a higher incidence of UTIs than girls.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1140"></a>24. Pyelonephritic scarring occurs most commonly in the poles of the kidney and is associated with compound papillae.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1145"></a>25. Of individuals who intermittently catheterize, 40% to 80% develop chronic bacteruria and/or pyuria. Most of these individuals are asymptomatic and do not require antibiotic prophylaxis or treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1150"></a>26. For catheterized specimens, recovery of at least 50,000 CFU/mL is required to define a UTI and 100,000 CFU/mL is required if the specimen was collected via a clean catch method.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_73"></span><span id="pagebreak_74"></span><span id="pagebreak_75"></span><span id="pagebreak_76"></span>
</body>
</html>
