<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0081"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">81</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000811">Inguinal Node Dissection</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Rene Sotelo, Luis G. Medina,, and Marcos Tobias Machado</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">inguinal lymph node dissection; lymph node metastases; papilloma virus; penile cancer; penile tumor; squamous cell carcinoma</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch081_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0425"></a>1. The most important independent prognostic factor related to cancer-specific survival in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the penis is lymph node metastasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0430"></a>2. Immediate ILND is associated with improved survival compared to salvage surgery for clinically detectable disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0435"></a>3. For centers of excellence with expertise in penile cancer and ILND, DSNB can be performed with a false-negative rate of less than 5%.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0440"></a>4. Superficial and modified ILND are options in the initial management of inguinal region in patients with nonpalpable disease. These are techniques have less morbidity than radical ILND.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0445"></a>5. Endoscopic inguinal lymphadenectomy has been demonstrated to have less morbidity than open ILND and to remove comparable number of lymph nodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0450"></a>6. Radical ILND is indicated for palpable disease, with potential for cure in inguinal-only disease, and for palliation of pain, infection, or hemorrhage in selected patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0455"></a>7. Adjuvant chemotherapy can aid in better outcomes in patients with positive inguinal disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0460"></a>8. Pelvic metastasis do not occur in patients with negative inguinal nodes.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_310"></span><span id="pagebreak_311"></span>
</body>
</html>
