<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0056"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">56</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000562">Inflammatory and Pain Conditions of the Male Genitourinary Tract</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Prostatitis and Related Pain Conditions, Orchitis, and Epididymitis</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Michel Pontari</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">chronic pelvic pain syndrome; chronic scrotal pain syndrome; epididymitis; orchitis; prostatitis</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch056_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0145">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0885"></a>1. Men with category I acute prostatitis present with acute symptoms of dysuria and frequency and may have fever.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0890"></a>2. The most common causative organism is <span class="italic">E. coli.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0895"></a>3. Types of bacteria and antibiotic sensitivities differ by etiology: spontaneous, after transurethral procedure, or after transrectal biopsy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0900"></a>4. Men with acute prostatitis after transrectal biopsy should be treated with carbapenems, amikacin, or second and third-generation cephalosporins.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0905"></a>5. A suprapubic tube should be used if long-term drainage is needed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0910"></a>6. Failure to respond to therapy should prompt imaging to look for a prostatic abscess.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0915"></a>7. Chronic bacterial prostatitis is characterized by recurrent urinary tract infections with the same organism</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0920"></a>8. Unlike men with category III prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome, they are then relatively asymptomatic between episodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0925"></a>9. Urinary retention as a cause of recurrent UTI must be ruled out.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0930"></a>10. Men younger than 45 years do not need imaging but need assessment for a urethral stricture.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0935"></a>11. Treatment is with antibiotics that achieve adequate prostate concentrations</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0940"></a>12. For refractory cases, daily suppressive antibiotics or TURP can be used.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0945"></a>13. Men with CP/CPPS have equal amounts of bacteria in urine, prostate fluid, and seminal plasma as men without pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0950"></a>14. There is evidence of central sensitization of the CNS in both afferent and efferent nerves.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0955"></a>15. In those with inflammation in VB3, EPS, or seminal plasma, the degree of inflammation does not correlate with symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0960"></a>16. Helplessness and catastrophizing predict overall pain along with urinary symptoms and depression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0965"></a>17. Men with CPPS also have a lower baseline adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) level and blunted ACTH rise in response to stress than men without symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0970"></a>18. Men CP/CPPS have increased pain sensitivity compared with controls.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0975"></a>19. CP/CPPS is a diagnosis of exclusion and should be made only after a thorough search for other causes of pelvic pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0980"></a>20. CP/CPPS has potential issues outside of the pelvis (and usual scope of urology) such as psychological issues and neurologic problems.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0985"></a>21. Patients with CP/CPPS must be assessed for other chronic pain syndrome such as IBS, fibromyalgia, and chronic fatigue syndrome.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0990"></a>22. Patients with tenderness on pelvis exam may benefit from pelvic floor physical therapy/myofascial release.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0995"></a>23. Therapy for CPPS is best done in a multimodal fashion; the symptom classification UPOINT can be helpful in directing evaluation and subsequently therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1000"></a>24. Repeated courses of antibiotics in the absence of a positive urine culture are not indicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1005"></a>25. The best treatment combination from meta-analyses is antibiotics plus α-blockers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1010"></a>26. Men with bladder pain should be considered for bladder-specific therapies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1015"></a>27. Men with tenderness on pelvic floor exam should be referred for pelvic floor physical therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1020"></a>28. Sacral neuromodulation can be used in men with pain who also have frequency and urgency.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1025"></a>29. Treatment is best undertaken as simultaneous multimodal therapy addressing all aspects of the patient’s symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1030"></a>30. Viral orchitis is most commonly caused by the mumps virus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1035"></a>31. For scrotal pain a duplex Doppler ultrasound should be performed to assess for anatomic or congenital abnormality, torsion, or mass.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1040"></a>32. Pelvic floor physical therapy should be considered in men with orchialgia and abnormal tone on digital rectal exam.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1045"></a>33. Acute epididymitis is more commonly caused by an STD in men younger than 35 years and enteric organism in men older than 35 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1050"></a>34. For microsurgical spermatic cord denervation (MSDC) three areas that should be addressed are the cremasteric muscle fibers, the perivasal sheath, and the posterior lipomatous tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o1055"></a>35. The distal vas deferens should be incorporated into the surgical specimen during an epididymectomy for postvasectomy pain syndrome.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_197"></span><span id="pagebreak_198"></span><span id="pagebreak_199"></span>
</body>
</html>
