<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0111"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">111</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001117">Pathophysiology and Classification of Lower Urinary Tract Dysfunction</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Overview</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Elizabeth Timbrook Brown, Alan J. Wein, and Roger R. Dmochowski</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder; pathophysiology; storage emptying; urethral sphincter</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch111_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. The spinal sympathetic reflexes are facilitatory to bladder filling/storage.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. The micturition cycle is divided into two phases: (1) bladder filling/urine storage and (2) bladder empting/voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. There are two urethral sphincters: (1) the smooth urethral sphincter is the smooth musculature of the bladder neck and proximal urethra; the smooth sphincter is not under voluntary control; and (2) the striated sphincter, which has two parts—the striated intramural sphincter, called the rhabdosphincter, and the external striated sphincter, which is part of the levator musculature. This sphincter is under voluntary control.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. While collagen content of the bladder wall increases, compliance decreases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. There is increased afferent input when inflammation or irritation occurs, causing hypersensitivity to pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. The hammock hypothesis of continence proposes that there is a fixed dorsal portion of the urethra due to fascial attachments against which the ventral aspect of the urethra is compressed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. Increases in intra-abdominal pressure are transmitted to the proximal urethra (as well as the mid-urethra in females).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. The bladder response to filling at a physiologic rate is an almost imperceptible change in intravesical pressure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. Elasticity allows the constituents of the bladder wall to stretch to a certain degree without any increase in tension. Viscoelasticity allows stretch to induce a rise in tension followed by a decay (stress relaxation) when the filling (stretch stimulus) slows or stops.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. IVCs are most commonly seen associated with suprasacral neurologic disease or after suprasacral neurologic injury; however, they may also be associated with aging, inflammation, or irritation of the bladder wall, bladder outlet obstruction, or stress urinary incontinence, or they may be idiopathic.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. Overactive bladder is defined (ICS) as urgency, with or without urinary urgency incontinence, usually with frequency and nocturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. It is impossible to have effort-related incontinence in the woman without some element of ISD.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition</span>, on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_428"></span><span id="pagebreak_429"></span><span id="pagebreak_430"></span>
</footer>
</body>
</html>
