<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0122"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">122</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001221">Electrical Stimulation and Neuromodulation in Storage and Emptying Failure</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">John P.F.A. Heesakkers, and Bertil Blok</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">electrical stimulation; overactive bladder; percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation; sacral anterior root stimulation; sacral neuromodulation; transcutaneous electrostimulation; urge urinary incontinence</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>


<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch122_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>



<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0845"></a>1. Electrical stimulation for lower urinary tract dysfunction is in its infancy compared to the standard of care in pain and cardiovascular disorders.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0850"></a>2. Nearly every nerve involved in the innervation of the lower urinary tract could theoretically be used to influence the lower urinary tract.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0855"></a>3. Sacral anterior root stimulation is very effective and improves quality of life dramatically but is also very invasive and irreversible.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0860"></a>4. Future innovation of the Brindley technique should avoid dorsal rhizotomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0865"></a>5. Of the peripheral types of neuromodulation, percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation is the best tested and developed one, and it has FDA approval.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0870"></a>6. New initiatives to have more patient- and doctor-friendly techniques are coming up.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0875"></a>7. Sacral neuromodulation is an established third treatment option for idiopathic bladder dysfunction. Sacral neuromodulation does have FDA approval for idiopathic overactive bladder and nonobstructive underactive bladder, but not for bladder or pelvic pain syndrome and neurogenic bladder.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology</span>, 12th Edition, on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_466"></span><span id="pagebreak_467"></span><span id="pagebreak_468"></span>
</body>
</html>
