<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0070"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">70</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000707">Priapism</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Gregory A. Broderick</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">high-flow priapism; ischemic priapism; priapism; recurrent ischemic priapism; sickle cell disease; stuttering priapism</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch070_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0875"></a>1. Ischemic priapism is the result of little or no cavernous arterial inflow.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0880"></a>2. Interventions 48 hours beyond the onset of ischemic priapism may relieve pain but will have little benefit in preserving potency.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0885"></a>3. Stuttering priapism is recurrent, unwanted, painful erections in men, usually with sickle cell disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0890"></a>4. Nonischemic or high-flow arterial priapism is usually the result of trauma, and the corpora are tumescent but not rigid.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0895"></a>5. The etiology of the majority of ischemic priapism is idiopathic; however, it may be associated with psychotropic medications, alcohol or drug abuse, hematologic dyscrasias, metastatic disease, perineal trauma, intracavernous injection of vasoactive drugs, and sickle cell disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0900"></a>6. Priapism following a PDE5 inhibitor usually occurs in men with other risk factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0905"></a>7. On rare occasions, following reversal of ischemic priapism, high-flow priapism may occur. Doppler ultrasound is useful in making this diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0910"></a>8. Ischemic priapism and stuttering priapism are the result of NO imbalance.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0915"></a>9. In ischemic priapism, aspiration alone will be curative in a third of the patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0920"></a>10. Phenylephrine, 200 μg/mL given in 0.5-mL aliquots, not to exceed a total dose of 1 mg, is used to treat ischemic priapism. Corporal aspiration, if unsuccessful, should be followed by α-adrenergic injection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0925"></a>11. Aspiration has no role in high-flow priapism other than for diagnosis; it plays no role in treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0930"></a>12. PDE5 inhibitor therapy has been used to treat stuttering priapism in men with sickle cell disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0935"></a>13. When surgical therapy is indicated, a cavernosal glanular shunt should be the first choice.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0940"></a>14. Spontaneous resolution of high-flow arterial priapism generally occurs in two thirds of patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0945"></a>15. If a distal shunt fails, a proximal shunt should be considered.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0950"></a>16. In sickle cell disease, concurrent systemic treatments may be offered, but relief of the penile ischemia should be pursued aggressively. Aspiration should be repeated until no more dark blood can be seen coming out of the corpora and bright red blood is obtained.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0955"></a>17. Increased risk for priapism occurs in sickle cell disease, spinal cord injury, men who used a PDE5 inhibitor recreationally, men who used a PDE5 inhibitor in combination with intracavernous injection, men with a history of penile trauma, men on psychotropic medications, and men abusing narcotics.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_260"></span><span id="pagebreak_261"></span><span id="pagebreak_262"></span><span id="pagebreak_263"></span>
</body>
</html>
