<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0123"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">123</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001233">Retropubic Suspension Surgery for Incontinence in Women</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Siobhan M. Hartigan, Christopher R. Chapple, and Roger R. Dmochowski</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">Burch colposuspension; mesh; retropubic repair; stress incontinence; urinary incontinence</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>


<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch123_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0145">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. Anti-incontinence surgery does not work by restoring the normal mechanism of continence but, rather, by a compensatory approach creating a new mechanism of continence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. ISD is suggested by a leak point pressure less than 60 cm H<sub>2</sub>O or a maximum urethral closure pressure of less than 20 cm H<sub>2</sub>O.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. Approximately 40% of nulliparous 30- to 49-year-old women experience some degree of incontinence with exercise.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. If nonabsorbable sutures are used in a retropubic suspension, they may migrate into the bladder and serve as a foreign body nidus for stone formation and infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. The postoperative risk of SUI in continent women undergoing an abdominal sacrocolpopexy is substantially reduced by the addition of a Burch colposuspension.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. A maximum urethral closing pressure of less than 20 cm H<sub>2</sub>O is a contraindication to the Burch colposuspension.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. All patients, before any colposuspension, should be advised about the potential need for intermittent self-catheterization.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. The Burch colposuspension is regarded as the standard open retropubic procedure for incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. If ISD is the primary problem, a fascial sling procedure should be performed rather than a colposuspension.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. A MMK procedure, a paravaginal defect repair, and needle suspension procedures are not recommended for the treatment of SUI.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. The majority of women with SUI will also have an element of intrinsic sphincteric weakness with a variable degree of loss of the normal anatomic support of the bladder neck and proximal urethra, resulting in hypermobility.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. Contraindications for a retropubic colposuspension include significant sphincteric deficiency, pan-pelvic floor weakness, and inadequate vaginal length or mobility. Moreover, it may not correct the associated vaginal prolapse.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0630"></a>13. Bladder hyperactivity commonly accompanies anatomic SUI, and its incidence preoperatively has been reported to be as high as 30%. In the majority of cases, the bladder overactivity symptoms resolve after surgical repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0635"></a>14. Simultaneous hysterectomy is not recommended prophylactically because it does not enhance the outcome of a retropubic suspension and should be performed only if there is concomitant uterine pathology.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition</span>, on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_470"></span><span id="pagebreak_471"></span>
<span id="pagebreak_472"></span><span id="pagebreak_473"></span><span id="pagebreak_474"></span>
</body>
</html>
