<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0161"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">161</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001610">Hormonal Therapy for Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Scott Eggener</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">androgen ablation; androgen deprivation; androgen receptor blockade; locally advanced prostate cancer; metastatic prostate cancer</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_612"></span><span id="pagebreak_613"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch161_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
</div>
<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="614" id="pagebreak_614"></span>
<a id="pg614"></a>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. Antiandrogens bind to the androgen receptor in a competitive fashion. They are either steroidal or nonsteroidal.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. Steroidal antiandrogens suppress LH release. Thus the steroidal antiandrogens block the effects of testosterone on the receptor as well as lower testosterone through their progestational central inhibition effect. The nonsteroidal antiandrogens simply block androgen receptors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. When performing an orchiectomy, double-ligating the transected segments of the cord with one being a transfixion suture is advised.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. Initial exposure to LHRH agonists results in a flare of testosterone that may last for up to 20 days; the clinical effects of the flare may be blocked by the simultaneous administration of an antiandrogen. The two drugs should be administered together, and the antiandrogen therapy should be continued for 3 weeks.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. After 4 years of androgen deprivation, the average man is osteopenic.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Bothersome hot flashes can be treated with megestrol, cyproterone, DES, estradiol, medroxyprogesterone, or gabapentin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. ADT may result in bone loss, sexual dysfunction, hot flashes, decreased cognitive function, loss of muscle mass, increase in body fat, anemia, gynecomastia, diabetes, and increased cardiovascular mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. Twenty percent of individuals with metastatic prostate cancer die of nonprostate cancer causes.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Bilateral orchiectomy reduces testosterone by 90% within 24 hours.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. The androgen receptor remains responsive to androgen even in the castration-resistant state; therefore, ADT should be continued in the patient who has castration-resistant prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. The steroid synthesis inhibitors aminoglutethimide, ketoconazole, and abiraterone require simultaneous glucocorticoid replacement. Aminoglutethimide requires mineral corticoid replacement as well, whereas abiraterone results in increased mineral corticoid production that may result in hypokalemia and hypertension.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Intermittent ADT compared with continuous therapy is not superior and may be worse.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. Many men with prostate cancer will never require ADT because of the protracted course of the disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0600"></a>14. Estradiol is a 1000-fold more potent at suppressing LH and FSH secretion by the pituitary compared to testosterone.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0605"></a>15. Therapies that block the androgen receptor but do not lower testosterone, such as nonsteroidal antiandrogens, may produce excessive amounts of testosterone, which is peripherally converted to estrogens, leading to the gynecomastia and mastodynia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0610"></a>16. All antiandrogens can act agonistically on prostate cancer cells and, when used in combination with LHRH agonists, withdrawal of the antiandrogen can lead to declines in PSA and even objective responses.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0615"></a>17. The LHRH agonists exploit the desensitization of LHRH receptors in the anterior pituitary following chronic exposure to LHRH, thereby shutting down the production of LH and, ultimately, testosterone.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0620"></a>18. Prophylactic radiation therapy (10 Gy) has been used to prevent or reduce gynecomastia and mastodynia, but it has no benefit once these side effects have already occurred. Once they are present, a simple mastectomy may be required in some men for cosmetic and symptomatic relief.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0625"></a>19. A clinical trial comparing surgical castration alone with surgical castration combined with flutamide did not show a significant benefit in men with minimal metastatic disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0630"></a>20. Although early ADT may provide an overall survival advantage in certain clinical disease states, in most studies there is no significant overall survival advantage. Indeed, in localized, low-risk prostate cancer, early ADT is associated with an increase in overall death rates.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0635"></a>21. The benefits of ADT in combination with external beam radiation therapy are limited to men with locally advanced and/or high-grade disease.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
