<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0010"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">10</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000100">Principles of Urologic Surgery</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Intraoperative Technical Decisions</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Manish A. Vira, and Christopher J. Hartman</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">blood products; drains; hemostatic agents; intraoperative patient environment; suture material and incision closure</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch010_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title0015">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0050">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0220"></a>1. The two primary reasons for hypothermia in the operating room are peripheral vasodilation that occurs with anesthetic agents and radiation of heat as the body interacts with the environment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0225"></a>2. Normothermia is defined as a core temperature between 36°C and 38°C, and either hypothermia or hyperthermia may have adverse perioperative outcomes, including increased blood loss and increased incidence of surgical site infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0230"></a>3. Strategies to maintain normothermia include patient warming blankets, warmed intravenous and irrigation fluids, warmed CO<sub>2</sub> insufflation during laparoscopy, and an increase in ambient operating room temperature.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0235"></a>4. Commonly used skin antiseptic solutions for sterile skin preparation include alcohol, povidone-iodine, and chlorhexidine-based solutions, none of which has proven to be superior to the others in reducing SSI.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0240"></a>5. If hair is to be removed, it should preferably be removed immediately before the surgical procedure with clippers.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0245"></a>6. Three commonly occurring and preventable injuries in the operating room are retractor-associated injuries, thermal injuries, and patient position–related injuries.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0250"></a>7. Peripheral neuropathy may result from improper patient positioning and is often secondary to excessive stretch, prolonged compression, or ischemia of a nerve.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0255"></a>8. When positioning in lithotomy, care should be taken to manipulate both lower extremities simultaneously with flexion of the hips at 80 to 100 degrees with 30- to 45-degree abduction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0260"></a>9. Current indications for packed red blood cell transfusion include hematocrit lower than 21%, maintenance of hematocrit of greater than 30% in patients with high risk of myocardial ischemia, or in patients with hematocrit 21% to 30% with signs of inadequate oxygen-carrying capacity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0265"></a>10. Platelet transfusion may be beneficial in patients with severe thrombocytopenia (&lt;50,000/mm<sup>3</sup>) who are undergoing a planned surgical procedure, or in patients with moderate thrombocytopenia (50,000/mm<sup>3</sup> to 100,000/mm<sup>3</sup>) who are undergoing a high-risk procedure or have evidence of platelet dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0270"></a>11. The indications for fresh frozen plasma are immediate reversal of warfarin, replacement of specific clotting factors, and evidence of bleeding in the setting of an INR greater than 1.5.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0275"></a>12. Adjunct hemostatic agents may be broadly classified as dry matrix agents or biologically active agents.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0280"></a>13. Oxidized regenerated cellulose agents (Fibrillar, Surgicel, Nu-Knit) aid in surgical hemostasis by activating the body’s natural clotting cascade.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0285"></a>14. Topical thrombin agents (Thrombin-JMI, Evithrom, Recothrom) and the combination of thrombin sealants with a gelatin matrix (Floseal and Surgiflo) are not inhibited by urine and additionally resist stone formation within the urinary tract, making them advantageous hemostatic agents for use in urologic surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0290"></a>15. Numerous studies have shown that surgical drains may not be of benefit in the perioperative period and may cause pain and lead to an increased risk of SSI; therefore the routine use of surgical drains is not recommended outside of specific indications to do so.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0295"></a>16. The surgical scar regains 3% of strength at 1 week, 20% at 3 weeks, and 80% at 3 months.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0300"></a>17. Nonabsorbable sutures should be avoided when contact with urine is anticipated, such as during urinary tract anastomosis, because this increases the risk of stone development.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0305"></a>18. The risk of incisional hernia formation is not increased between slowly absorbable and nonabsorbable suture material in continuous versus interrupted fascial closures, although closure with nonabsorbable suture material was associated with increased wound pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0310"></a>19. Rapidly absorbable sutures used for continuous fascia closure are associated with an increased incidence of incisional hernias.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0315"></a>20. Fascia dehiscence generally occurs 7 to 10 days postoperatively but may occur up to 30 days after surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0320"></a>21. In the presence of infection, braided sutures (Vicryl, Mersilene) should be avoided for wound closure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0325"></a>22. Using staples for skin closure as opposed to sutures has been shown to decrease incision closure time, reduce the risk of wound infection, and has resulted in nonsignificant differences in cosmetic outcomes and patient satisfaction with wound appearance.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_27"></span>
</body>
</html>
