<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0162"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">162</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001622">Treatment of Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Emmanuel S. Antonarakis, and Michael A. Carducci</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">androgen receptor; castration-resistant prostate cancer; cytotoxic chemotherapy; immunotherapy; bone health</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<div id="p0010"></div>

<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch162_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0350"></a>1. Androgen ablation induces apoptosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0355"></a>2. The AR may be stimulated by hormones other than androgens, including estrogens and progestins, as well as growth factors and cytokines.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0360"></a>3. Patients with castration-resistant disease are not androgen independent and should be maintained on ablative hormonal therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0365"></a>4. PSA doubling time (PSADT) may be used to predict bone scan progression and survival; a PSADT of less than 3 months is associated with a rapid clinical course.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0370"></a>5. When evaluating therapeutic agents, progression-free survival is a better end point than response rate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0375"></a>6. PSA may or may not be affected by drugs that are efficacious, and therefore it is not a good marker to evaluate new drugs—perhaps circulating tumor cells will become a better marker.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0380"></a>7. Docetaxel is the first-line chemotherapeutic agent for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0385"></a>8. Abiraterone inhibits enzymes involved in androgen synthesis. It does result in secondary mineralocorticoid excess with resultant hypertension and hypokalemia, and as such it is commonly given with prednisone. Occasionally, when secondary mineralocorticoid excess causes significant abnormalities, a mineralocorticoid antagonist may be necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0390"></a>9. Bone metastases in prostate cancer are usually blastic; hypercalcemia is rare.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0395"></a>10. Suspected spinal cord compression from prostate metastases may be diagnosed with a spinal MRI. Those with compression or impending compression, if they are not androgen suppressed, should have an immediate orchiectomy, or be given aminoglutethimide or ketoconazole and high-dose corticosteroids. A decompression laminectomy and radiation therapy should be considered.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0400"></a>11. Bisphosphonates or denosumab is used to limit skeletal events. Oral calcium supplements and vitamin D may be necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0405"></a>12. Radiopharmaceuticals used to treat bone pain due to prostate metastases include the β-emitters strontium-89 and samarium-153. These agents may cause severe myelotoxicity. The α-emitter radium-223 shows promise in palliating bone pain and improving survival without the myelosuppressive effects of the β-emitters.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0410"></a>13. Rarely, patients with advanced prostate cancer may have a transformation of their tumor to a neuroendocrine/anaplastic variant. These tumors are endocrine resistant, frequently involve the viscera and brain, have little impact on PSA, and are treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0415"></a>14. After initial gonadal suppression, AR signaling is upregulated in castration-resistant disease and continues to play a major role in tumor growth.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0420"></a>15. Sipuleucel-T is a treatment option for patients with minimally or asymptomatic metastatic prostate cancer. Treatment is generally very safe. There is no evidence that sipuleucel-T treatment causes symptomatic relief, any clinically meaningful PSA declines, or delay in disease progression. The drug was approved based on a survival benefit compared with placebo.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0425"></a>16. Apalutamide and enzalutamide, but not abiraterone, are specifically approved by the FDA for use in men with M0 CRPC. Enzalutamide, but not apalutamide, is also FDA approved for M1 CRPC. Abiraterone is only approved for M1 CRPC.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="b1textfl">
<a id="pg618"></a>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_616"></span><span id="pagebreak_617"> </span>
</body>
</html>
