<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0103"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">103</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001038">Nonsurgical Focal Therapy for Renal Tumors</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Chad R. Tracy, and Jeffrey A. Cadeddu</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cryoablation; image-guided surgery; kidney cancer; minimally invasive surgery; radiofrequency ablation</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch103_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0065">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0320"></a>1. Currently, a double freeze-thaw cycle is suggested for cryotherapy with a period of time during each cycle in which the temperature is maintained at <span>−</span>40°C.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0325"></a>2. Radiofrequency waves generate heat by causing ionic agitation in the tissue through which they pass; charring at the probe tip prevents adequate conduction of the wave from the probe into tissue; to prevent heat at the probe becoming excessive with resultant charring, the probes are cooled.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0330"></a>3. CT or MRI is used to follow patients after ablative therapy. There should be a complete lack of contrast enhancement at the tumor site. Successful cryoablation on follow-up imaging often reveals up to a 50% reduction in size of the lesion. RF ablation followed over the long term often shows a slight reduction in size and cavitation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0335"></a>4. The tumor should be biopsied to confirm its malignant nature before ablative therapy is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0340"></a>5. The most common complication following cryoablation is hemorrhage; a serious complication following radiofrequency ablation is ureteral/collecting system injury. Bleeding is less common following radiofrequency ablation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0345"></a>6. High-intensity focused ultrasonography generates heat by focusing the ultrasound waves at a point; unfortunately, skin burns are a common complication of this technology.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0350"></a>7. There is no significant difference in metastatic recurrence-free survival between extirpative and ablative treatments. Cancer-specific survival (CSS) following RFA is comparable to laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. CSS is comparable between open partial nephrectomy and both RFA and cryoablation.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh Urology</span>, 12th Edition, on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_400"></span>
</body>
</html>
