<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0023"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">23</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000239">Urologic Evaluation of the Child</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Rachel Selekman, and Hillary L. Copp</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">diagnostic imaging; medical history taking; pediatrics; physical examination; urology</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch023_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. The most common malignant abdominal tumor in infants is a neuroblastoma, followed by Wilms tumor.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. Undescended testes are present in 30% of preterm neonates and 3% of full-term neonates; the testis will likely not descend after 6 months of age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. The most common prepubertal testicular/paratesticular tumor is teratoma, followed by rhabdomyosarcoma, epidermoid cyst, yolk sac tumor, and germ cell tumor, in that order.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. Very few children hold urine and not stool. Conversely, children who retain stool nearly always retain urine.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. Gross hematuria in the newborn is an emergency because it may indicate renal venous thrombosis or renal artery thrombosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. In general, blunt renal trauma is treated nonoperatively, except when there is a major vascular avulsion or extensive urinary extravasation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. In the newborn, the foreskin is adherent to the glans, and adhesions should not be separated unless a circumcision is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. A positive dipstick for blood requires a microscopic examination. Absence of red blood cells in the microscopic examination indicates hemoglobinuria or myoglobinuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Continuous leakage of urine in a girl should suggest ectopic ureter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. Infants younger than 6 months of age and uncircumcised male infants are at increased risk for urinary tract infections.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. A patients with a myelomeningocele is at increased risk for latex allergy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Most microscopic hematuria in children is transient, and the source is not identified. The most commonly identified etiology of asymptomatic microhematuria in children is hypercalciuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is caused by a mutation on chromosome 11p15.5. Clinical features include macroglossia, nephromegaly, organomegaly (hepatosplenomegaly), macrosomia (gigantism), and hemihypertrophy. Many of the affected infants have hypoglycemia in the first few days of life. These individuals are at increased risk for adrenal carcinoma, Wilms tumor, hepatoblastoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0600"></a>14. Renal pathology accounts for approximately two-thirds of abdominal masses found in the neonate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0605"></a>15. If a difference of sex development (intersex) is thought to exist, a symmetric gonadal examination (gonads palpable on each side or impalpable on both sides) suggests a global disorder, such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia or androgen insensitivity. If the gonads are nonpalpable, congenital adrenal hyperplasia is likely.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0610"></a>16. A hydrocele that changes in volume suggests a patent processus vaginalis.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_68"></span><span id="pagebreak_69"></span>
</body>
</html>
