<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0019"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">19</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000197">Intraoperative Consultation</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Michael J. Schwartz, and Jessica E. Kreshover</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder injury; intraoperative consultation; intraoperative decision making; ureteral injury; urethral injury; urology consult</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch019_assessments.xhtml" height="750"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0045">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0185"></a>1. The intraoperative consultation enters the physician into a new patient-physician relationship, and full disclosure regarding the reason for consultation is critical.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0190"></a>2. When possible, all relevant stakeholders should be included when difficult intraoperative decisions are to be made.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0195"></a>3. When considering whether to temporize or attempt definitive action at intraoperative consultation, current patient condition, procedure morbidity, long-term consequences, and reversibility should all be thoroughly considered.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0200"></a>4. Complex reconstructions, with selected exceptions, are best deferred with temporizing measures until such time that the patient is able to participate in shared decision making.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0205"></a>5. Documentation of intraoperative consultations should be fact-based and include the consultant’s primary observations and assessment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0210"></a>6. When bladder injury is found, it is important to ensure there is no concomitant injury to the ureters or ureteral orifices.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0215"></a>7. When a bladder injury is suspected but not visualized, a cystotomy may be performed to facilitate identification of the area of injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0220"></a>8. Early recognition of ureteral injury is important, as failure to do so carries significant morbidity.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0225"></a>9. If ureteral injury is suspected but not visualized, imaging and/or endoscopic assessments should be performed to confirm presence or absence of injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0230"></a>10. Consultation for ureteral catheter placement should be reserved for the preoperative setting and for appropriately selected cases.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_56"></span>
</body>
</html>
