<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0054"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">54</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000549">Pediatric Urologic Oncology</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Bladder and Testis</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Fernando A. Ferrer</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder; cancer; mass; ovary; paratesticular; testis; tumor; uterus; vagina</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch054_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0085">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0465"></a>1. Embryonal is the most common histology for bladder/prostate lesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0470"></a>2. Alveolar histology is uncommon in the bladder or prostate. New studies indicated two distinct types, PAX-FOXO1 fusion positive and negative. Fusion-positive tumors carry a worse prognosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0475"></a>3. Bladder/prostate tumors typically present with symptoms of obstruction, retention, or hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0480"></a>4. Organ preservation is a principle goal of treatment; therefore, most patients treated in COG protocols undergo endoscopic/open biopsy as the initial step.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0485"></a>5. Pretreatment TNM staging and a surgical-pathologic group classification contribute to the patient’s final risk group assignment, which in turn determines therapy. New to the current study is the use of fusion status for therapeutic group assignment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0490"></a>6. Bladder/prostate tumors arise from an unfavorable site and gross residual tumor usually remains after biopsy, therefore most patients are assigned into the intermediate risk group.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0495"></a>7. A residual mass after chemo/radiotherapy does not necessarily mean viable tumor remains.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0500"></a>8. Rhabdomyoblasts are differentiated tumor cells (not active malignant tumor) that do not require further treatment but should be followed closely.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0505"></a>9. Vaginal RMS is the most common female genital site. The majority are embryonal histology, and organ preservation strategies have resulted in excellent overall survival.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0510"></a>10. Ovarian tumors comprise 1% of all childhood cancers. Ovarian tumors are histologically classified as germ cell, sex cord, or epithelial tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0515"></a>11. A large percentage of prepubertal testis tumors are benign; therefore testicular preservation approaches are often indicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0520"></a>12. Ultrasonography cannot reliably distinguish benign from malignant lesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0525"></a>13. AFP is the relevant biomarker in prepubertal testis tumors, and elevation is associated with yolk sac tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0530"></a>14. AFP levels must be interpreted with caution as physiologic elevation above normal values is common in children less than age 1 year.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0535"></a>15. Paratesticular RMS arises from the testicular tunics, epididymis, or the spermatic cord.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0540"></a>16. In general, patients with paratesticular RMS enjoy a favorable prognosis in part due to the following: (1) upward of 80% are stage I at presentation; (2) greater than 90% are embryonal histology; (3) better than expected outcomes for patients with alveolar histology.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0545"></a>17. Patients suspected of having a paratesticular tumor should always be explored through an inguinal incision.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0550"></a>18. Tumors in children greater than age 10 require staging RPLND in COG protocols because of a higher</li>
<li class="b1unnumlist" id="bpar0105">
<a id="u0010"></a>retroperitoneal failure rate.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_185"></span><span id="pagebreak_186"></span>
</body>
</html>
