<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0008"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">8</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000082">Principles of Urologic Surgery</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Perioperative Care</h2>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Simpa S. Salami</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">opioid abuse; patient safety; perioperative management; quality</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch008_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0050">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0220"></a>1. One must always determine whether a woman in the childbearing years is pregnant before a surgical procedure. A urine pregnancy test is a simple method to do this.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0225"></a>2. The American Society of Anesthesiologists’ classification is a significant predictor of operative mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0230"></a>3. Preoperative cardiac evaluation is meant to identify serious coronary artery disease, heart failure, symptomatic arrhythmias, and the presence of a pacemaker or defibrillator. Major clinical predictors of cardiovascular risk are a recent myocardial infarction (within 1 month), unstable angina, evidence of an ischemic burden, decompensated heart failure, significant arrhythmias, and severe valvular disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0235"></a>4. A patient’s ability to climb two flights of stairs is a good assessment of adequate functional capacity.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0240"></a>5. Patients with an FEV<sub>1</sub> of less than 30% predicted are at high risk for complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0245"></a>6. Smoking must be discontinued at least 8 weeks before surgery to be effective in reducing risk.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0250"></a>7. Perioperative β blockade is associated with a reduced risk of death among high-risk patients undergoing major noncardiac surgical procedures. However, more recent data bring this into question.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0255"></a>8. Patients who have a depressed hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis due to exogenous steroids should receive 50 to 100 mg of intravenous hydrocortisone before the induction of anesthesia and 25 to 50 mg every 8 hours thereafter until the patient’s medication is resumed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0260"></a>9. In the elderly, delirium can be the first clinical sign of hypoxia or of metabolic or infectious complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0265"></a>10. In the pregnant patient, postoperative pain is best managed with narcotic analgesics.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0270"></a>11. A preoperative electrocardiogram should be obtained in all patients older than 40 years and in those with a significant cardiac history.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0275"></a>12. It is important to remember that for prophylaxis of venous thromboembolic disease and the use of antibiotic and mechanical bowel preps before intestinal surgery, the studies are often based on data obtained from nonurologic patients. The urologist must consider this when the procedure being performed is significantly different from the standard general surgical operation on which the data are based. This is particularly true for bowel preparation, as urologic reconstructive procedures often require opening the isolated intestinal segment to be used in the procedure, exposing the entire contents to the operative field.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0280"></a>13. Parenteral antibiotics should be given within 60 minutes before intestinal surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0285"></a>14. Nitrous oxide inhalation anesthesia results in bowel distention.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0290"></a>15. The half-life of warfarin is 36 to 42 hours, and it is recommended that warfarin be stopped 5 days before the surgical event.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0295"></a>16. Aspirin and clopidogrel are irreversible inhibitors of platelet function and should be discontinued 7 to 10 days before surgery if bleeding risk is to be minimized.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0300"></a>17. For moderate- to high-risk groups on anticoagulation therapy, a therapeutic bridge is performed using unfractionated or low-molecular-weight heparin. These may be stopped 4 or 12 hours, respectively, before the procedure and instituted shortly after its completion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0305"></a>18. The indications for fresh frozen plasma are immediate reversal of warfarin and replacement of specific clotting factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0310"></a>19. The most common cause of transfusion-related fatality is transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0315"></a>20. Hypothermia results in increased blood loss and an increased incidence of wound infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0320"></a>21. If hair is to be removed, it should preferably be removed immediately before the surgical event with mechanical clippers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0325"></a>22. The need for postoperative parenteral nutrition should be anticipated in patients undergoing major urologic procedures involving the use of bowel. If it is likely the patient will not be able to take an adequate caloric intake orally by 7 to 10 days, postoperative parenteral nutrition should be instituted.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0330"></a>23. The second trimester represents the least anesthetic risk to the mother and fetus with regard to spontaneous abortion and teratogenicity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0335"></a>24. Severely malnourished patients (&gt;20 pounds weight loss in 3 months) significantly benefit from 7 to 10 days of enteral (not parenteral) feedings <span class="italic">before</span> elective surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0340"></a>25. In a patient with renal insufficiency, unfractionated heparin is a better choice than low-molecular-weight heparin.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_22"></span>
</body>
</html>
