<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein
 Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0001"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">1</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900001X">Evaluation of the Urologic Patient</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5650">History and Physical Examination</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Sammy E. Elsamra</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">digital rectal examination; history; physical examination</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<!-- <a id="s0010"/> -->

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch001_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
<span id="pagebreak_2"></span><span id="pagebreak_3"></span>
<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="4" id="pagebreak_4"></span>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0170">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1060"></a>1. IPSS score: 0 to 7 mild symptoms, 8 to 19 moderate symptoms, 20 to 35 severe symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1065"></a>2. Renal pain radiates from the flank anteriorly to the respective lower quadrant and may be referred to the testis, labium, or medial aspect of the thigh. The pain is colicky (fluctuates). It may be associated with gastrointestinal symptoms due to reflex stimulation of the celiac ganglion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1070"></a>3. Patients with slowly progressive urinary obstruction with bladder distention often have no pain, despite residual volumes in excess of a liter.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1075"></a>4. Pain of prostatic origin is poorly localized.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1080"></a>5. Scrotal pain may be primary or referred. Pain referred to the testicle originates in the retroperitoneum, ureter, or kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1085"></a>6. Hematuria, particularly in adults, should be regarded as a symptom of malignancy until proven otherwise.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1090"></a>7. Adults normally arise no more than twice a night to void. Urine production increases at night (recumbent position) in older patients and those with cardiac disease, particularly CHF.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1095"></a>8. Postvoid dribbling: Urine escapes into the bulbar urethra and then leaks at the end of micturition. This may be alleviated by perineal pressure following voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1100"></a>9. Those who present with microscopic hematuria and irritative voiding symptoms should be suspected of having carcinoma in situ of the bladder until proven otherwise.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1105"></a>10. Continuous incontinence is most commonly due to ectopic ureter, urinary tract fistula, or totally incompetent sphincter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1110"></a>11. Hematospermia almost always resolves spontaneously and is rarely associated with any significant urologic pathology.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1115"></a>12. When urinary obstruction is associated with fever and chills, it should be regarded as a urologic emergency.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1120"></a>13. It is always worthwhile to obtain the previous operative report in patients who are to be operated on.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1125"></a>14. If the patient is uncircumcised, the foreskin must be retracted for inspection of the glans.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1130"></a>15. The testes are normally 6 cm in length and 4 cm in width.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1135"></a>16. If one obtains a stool guaiac test (hemoccult) as a screen for colon cancer, two subsequent stool specimens must be obtained for an adequate test. If the hemoccult is positive, the patient should be on a red meat–free diet for 3 days before collection of three specimens.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1140"></a>17. A male urologist should always perform a female pelvic examination with a female nurse in attendance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1145"></a>18. The bulbocavernosus reflex tests the integrity of this spinal cord reflex involving S2 to S4.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1150"></a>19. A positive dipstick for blood in the urine indicates hematuria, hemoglobinuria, or myoglobinuria. Hematuria is distinguished from hemoglobinuria and myoglobinuria by microscopic examination of the centrifuged urine and identification of red blood cells (more than three red blood cells per high-power field is abnormal).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1155"></a>20. Hematuria of nephrologic origin is frequently associated with proteinuria and dysmorphic erythrocytes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1160"></a>21. Anticoagulation at normal therapeutic levels does not predispose patients to hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1165"></a>22. The most accurate method to diagnose urinary tract infection is by microscopic examination of the urine and identifying pyuria and bacteria. This is confirmed by urine culture.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1170"></a>23. The chief complaint is the focus of the visit and is the reason the patient seeks consultation. It should be the lead sentence in the history and physical (H&amp;P).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1175"></a>24. A family history should always include questions about renal and prostate cancer, renal cysts, and stone disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1180"></a>25. Priapism occurs most commonly in patients with sickle cell disease but can also occur in those with advanced malignancy, coagulation disorders, or pulmonary disease, as well as in many patients without an obvious cause.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1185"></a>26. On urine dipstick, false-negative results for glucose and bilirubin may be seen in the presence of elevated ascorbic acid concentrations in the urine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1190"></a>27. Glomerular proteinuria is the most common type of proteinuria and results from increased glomerular capillary permeability to protein, especially albumin. Glomerular proteinuria occurs in any of the primary glomerular diseases such as IgA nephropathy or in glomerulopathy associated with systemic illness such as diabetes mellitus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1195"></a>28. Five bacteria per high-power field in a spun specimen reflect colony counts of about 100,000/mL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1200"></a>29. An important example of nonspecific lower urinary tract symptoms that may occur secondary to a variety of neurologic conditions is irritative symptoms resulting from neurologic disease such as cerebrovascular accident, diabetes mellitus, and Parkinson disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1205"></a>30. The renal threshold for glucose corresponds to a serum glucose level of about 180 mg/dL; above this level, glucose will be detected in the urine.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="textfl">
<a id="pg4"></a>
</div>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span>
</section>
</body>
</html>
