<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0143"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">143</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001439">Development, Molecular Biology, and Physiology of the Prostate</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Brian W. Simons, and Ashley E. Ross</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">androgen receptor; androgen; cell biology; differentiation; hormone; prostate development; prostate-specific antigen; prostate-specific membrane antigen; seminal vesicle; steroid</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>

<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch143_assessments.xhtml" height="610"></iframe>

</div>


<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0520"></a>1. The seminal vesicles are extremely resistant to disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0525"></a>2. There are two major cellular components in the prostate: epithelial and stromal.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0530"></a>3. The stromal component consists of connective tissue, smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0535"></a>4. The epithelial component consists of basal cells, intermediate cells, and neuroendocrine cells.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0540"></a>5. The prostate contains a rich plexus of autonomic nerves.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0545"></a>6. Because of the diurnal variation of serum testosterone, to avoid inconsistency it should be measured in the morning.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0550"></a>7. The role of circulating adrenal androgens on prostate growth is minor.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0555"></a>8. Because the plasma half-life of testosterone is 10 to 20 minutes, patients who undergo bilateral orchiectomy are functionally castrate within 1 to 2 hours after surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0560"></a>9. The androgen receptor is transported to the nucleus and then back to the cytoplasm; nuclear matrix is the major target for androgen and estrogen receptor binding in the nucleus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0565"></a>10. The longer the CAG repeat in the androgen receptor, the lower its activity in activating target genes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0570"></a>11. The source of prostaglandins, fructose, and semenogelin is the seminal vesicle.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0575"></a>12. The seminal vesicle contributes the most volume to the seminal fluid.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0580"></a>13. The source of citrate, zinc, spermine, and choline is the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0585"></a>14. Prostate-specific antigen is a serine protease and degrades semenogelin. Semenogelin gives rise to the coagulation of semen.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0590"></a>15. Complexed PSA is irreversibly bound to α1-antichymotrypsin and α2-macroglobulin.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0595"></a>16. Increases in human kallikrein 2, pro-PSA, and bound PSA are associated with prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0600"></a>17. Few drugs reach concentrations in the prostatic secretions that approach or surpass their concentrations in the serum. The exceptions include erythromycin, oleandomycin, sulfonamides, tetracycline, clindamycin, trimethoprim, and the fluoroquinolones.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0605"></a>18. Prostatic fluid is more acidic than is serum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0610"></a>19. Acid phosphatase produced in the prostate may be elevated in prostate cancer; it is also produced in the bone and may be elevated in diseases that affect the bone such as Paget disease, osteoporosis, and bone metastases.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0615"></a>20. The wolffian ducts develop into the seminal vesicles, epididymis, vas deferens, ampulla, and ejaculatory duct; the developmental growth of this group of glands is stimulated by fetal testosterone and not DHT.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0620"></a>21. Testosterone is reduced by 5α-reductase into DHT or to estrogens by aromatase; the process is irreversible.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_555"></span><span id="pagebreak_556"></span>
</body>
</html>
