<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0079"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">79</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000793">Tumors of the Penis</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Curtis A. Pettaway, Juanita M. Crook, and Lance C. Pagliaro</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">dynamic sentinel node biopsy; human papilloma virus; lymph node metastasis; lymphadenectomy; penectomy; penile cancer; squamous cell carcinoma</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_302"></span><span id="pagebreak_303"></span><span id="pagebreak_304"></span>
<section>
  
<section>
	<span id="s0010"></span>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch079_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
<div id="p0885"></div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0165">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1025"></a>1. HPV infection among men is associated with penile carcinoma, as well as with cervical dysplasia and carcinoma among female partners.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1030"></a>2. Imiquimod cream is now the standard topical treatment of choice for condyloma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1035"></a>3. Giant condyloma of Buschke Lowenstein are locally progressive HPV related tumors that are nonmetastatic but require complete excision and follow-up. The potential for coexisting or malignant degeneration to squamous carcinoma has been shown.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1040"></a>4. Penile carcinoma in situ (Tis) is an intraepithelial malignant process manifesting as three differing clinical entities including Bowenoid papulosis, Bowen disease, and erythroplasia of Queyrat.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1045"></a>5. Penile cancer is rare in developed countries and varies worldwide with age, circumcision, HPV exposure, and lifestyle/hygiene practices.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1050"></a>6. Recent epidemiologic data from the United States suggest a disparity in both incidence and outcome of penile cancer for Puerto Rican Hispanic men.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1055"></a>7. Risk factors for development of penile cancer include lack of neonatal circumcision, phimosis, HPV infection, exposure to tobacco products, penile lichen sclerosus, and potentially penile trauma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1060"></a>8. Penile cancer represents a preventable disease in most cases via neonatal circumcision, HPV vaccination, and/or behavior modification.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1065"></a>9. Penile cancer often begins on the surface of the glans penis or in the preputial area, where it progressively enlarges.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1070"></a>10. Delay both in seeking medical attention and then in subsequent definitive biopsy is common.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1075"></a>11. Examination of both the penile primary tumor and the inguinal region is critical to treatment planning.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1080"></a>12. Metastasis occurs by embolization of tumor deposits from the penile tumor through penile lymphatics to the inguinal lymph nodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1085"></a>13. Distant metastases occur late in the history of the disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1090"></a>14. Adequate tumor biopsy is essential to diagnosis and treatment planning.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1095"></a>15. Squamous carcinoma histologic subtypes have recently been classified by into two major groups by their relationship to HPV and show distinct morphologic features and clinical behavior.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1100"></a>16. Pathologic description of anatomic structures invaded (i.e., stage), the grade, and the status of vascular and perineural invasion provide important information to assess the risk of metastasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1105"></a>17. Soft-tissue detail of penile tumors is best imaged by MRI.<a id="pg305"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="305" id="pagebreak_305"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1110"></a>18. Physical examination provides the most reliable staging information for small distal lesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1115"></a>19. Penile MRI especially performed in combination with artificial erection may provide unique staging information when physical examination findings are equivocal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1120"></a>20. Physical examination of the inguinal region remains the clinical gold standard for evaluating the presence of metastasis in the nonobese patient.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1125"></a>21. CT or MRI can be useful in evaluating the inguinal region of obese patients and in those who have had prior inguinal surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1130"></a>22. Among patients with proven inguinal metastases, CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis may help determine those patients with poor prognostic features for cure with surgery alone.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1135"></a>23. Positron emission tomography (PET)/CT may be useful among patients with clinically detected inguinal metastases to define the presence of pelvic or distant metastasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1140"></a>24. Both clinical and pathologic factors related to the presence and extent of lymph node involvement determine survival and should be recorded.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1145"></a>25. The current, eighth edition unified TNM staging system represents a consensus document that includes both clinical and pathologic descriptors that provide important prognostic information.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1150"></a>26. Patients with small lesions of low grade and stage (Tis, Ta, T1; grade 1 and grade 2) are the optimal candidates for organ preservation to maintain sexual quality of life.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1155"></a>27. The goals of organ preservation are to maintain glanular tissue for sensory purposes when possible and/or to maintain penile length when glans penis preservation is not possible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1160"></a>28. Surgical modalities include limited excision strategies, Mohs surgery, and laser ablation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1165"></a>29. Local recurrence rates overall after organ preservation are higher than with traditional amputation; however, when local recurrences are detected and treated, early survival does not appear be adversely affected.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1170"></a>30. Amputation remains the standard for large or deeply invasive lesions, to gain rapid tumor control.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1175"></a>31. The presence and extent of inguinal metastases determine survival in penile cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1180"></a>32. Patients with persistent palpable inguinal adenopathy should undergo an ultrasound or CT guided inguinal biopsy, followed by management appropriate for the clinical scenario.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1185"></a>33. On the basis of the histologic features of the primary tumor, the risk of lymph node metastases can be assessed in patients with no palpable adenopathy based upon the TMN staging system. Dynamic sentinel node biopsy (DSNB), superficial inguinal lymph node dissection (ILND), or close follow-up can be recommended based upon TMN stage and other histologic features.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1190"></a>34. Factors associated with a high cure in surgically treated patients include no more than two inguinal metastases, unilateral involvement, no extranodal extension (ENE) of cancer, and the absence of pelvic metastases. Patients with higher volumes of disease should be considered for adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o1195"></a>35. Morbidity of lymphadenectomy is decreasing in contemporary series.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o1200"></a>36. Superficial ILND reliably determines the presence of microscopic inguinal metastases without the need for specialized facilities but can have significant morbidity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o1205"></a>37. Modified DSNB techniques to determine microscopic inguinal disease exhibit low morbidity, have been validated externally in higher-volume centers, and are now a recommended procedure in such centers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o1210"></a>38. Laparoscopic and robotic ILND obtains lymph node yields that are comparable to those of open techniques when used in selected patients and are an appropriate staging procedure in clinically lymph node negative patients. Additional studies with larger patient numbers and longer follow-up are required before routine adoption into clinical practice among patients with clinically positive inguinal lymph nodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0205">
<a id="o1215"></a>39. Pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND) is now recommended when more than one inguinal lymph node exhibits metastasis or when ENE of cancer is present.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0210">
<a id="o1220"></a>40. Radiation provides an effective penile-preserving approach for T1 to T2 squamous cell carcinomas less than 4 cm using either external-beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0215">
<a id="o1225"></a>41. Since 20% of recurrences occur after 5 years, continued follow-up is required as salvage penectomy for persistent or recurrent disease may be curative.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0220">
<a id="o1230"></a>42. The criteria for surgical staging of inguinal lymph nodes are the same whether patients undergo primary radiation or primary surgical management.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0225">
<a id="o1235"></a>43. Unresectable lymph nodes may be rendered operable by neoadjuvant chemotherapy or chemo-radiation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0230">
<a id="o1240"></a>44. Integration of radiation, surgery, and chemotherapy in advanced disease is being investigated in a prospective international randomized trial (InPACT: EA 8134).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0235">
<a id="o1245"></a>45. Palliative radiotherapy may be beneficial for metastatic disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0240">
<a id="o1250"></a>46. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with a cisplatin-containing regimen should be considered for patients with lymph node metastases, as responses in this setting may facilitate curative resection. In the absence of Level 1 evidence, the optimal or standard multimodal strategy remains undefined.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0245">
<a id="o1255"></a>47. The use of bleomycin in the treatment of men with metastatic penile cancer was associated with an unacceptable level of toxicity and is discouraged.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0250">
<a id="o1260"></a>48. Surgical consolidation to achieve disease-free status or palliation should be considered in fit patients with a proven objective response to systemic chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0255">
<a id="o1265"></a>49. Among patients who progress through chemotherapy, surgery is not recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0260">
<a id="o1270"></a>50. Basal cell carcinoma represents a highly curable variant with a relatively low metastatic potential.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0265">
<a id="o1275"></a>51. Sarcomas are prone to local recurrence; regional and distant metastases are rare. Superficial lesions can be treated with less radical procedures.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0270">
<a id="o1280"></a>52. Melanoma is an aggressive form of cancer but can be cured if diagnosed and treated with the appropriate surgical procedure at an early stage. Novel immunotherapy strategies may improve survival in recurrent or advanced disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0275">
<a id="o1285"></a>53. Extramammary Paget disease (EMPD) disseminates by intraepidermal spread initially. Wide local excision to achieve negative margins is the therapy of choice. Invasive EMPD can be lethal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0280">
<a id="o1290"></a>54. Penile metastases most often represent spread from a clinically obvious existing primary tumor. Prognosis is poor, and therapy should be directed toward the primary tumor site histology and local palliation.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
