<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0032"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">32</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900032X">Prune-Belly Syndrome</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Francisco T. Dénes, and Roberto Iglesias Lopes</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cryptorchidism; prune-belly syndrome; ureterohydronephrosis; urinary tract reconstruction</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch032_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</section>
<section>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0430"></a>1. Hydroureteronephrosis is often to a severe degree; however, the calyceal morphology may be well preserved.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0435"></a>2. The proximal portion of the ureters has more normal muscle than the distal portions.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0440"></a>3. The bladder is large with a pseudodiverticulum at the urachus and a wide bladder neck opening into a dilated prostatic urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0445"></a>4. Megalourethra is more commonly seen in PBS than any other syndrome. With the scaphoid variety, the ventral urethra dilates with voiding, whereas with the fusiform variety, the entire phallus dilates with voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0450"></a>5. Infertility is thought to be due to a combination of testicular histologic abnormalities, structural defects of the ducts and prostatic abnormalities, and retrograde ejaculation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0455"></a>6. Pulmonary hypoplasia can result from severe oligohydramnios related to renal dysplasia, or severe bladder outlet obstruction, and may result in newborn demise.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0460"></a>7. Despite being one of the hallmarks of the syndrome, the abdominal flaccidity has no direct relationship with the intensity of the urologic abnormalities and doesn’t impair the short- and long-term survival of the patient. Together with the orthopedic abnormalities, if significant and left untreated, it may cause a decrease in the quality of life in the adolescent and adult patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0465"></a>8. A team consisting of neonatology, nephrology, urology, and other specialties such as cardiology is necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0470"></a>9. A voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) is indicated in the neonatal period if there is renal insufficiency or evidence of bladder outlet obstruction and only after antibiotic prophylaxis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0475"></a>10. A chest x-ray to evaluate for pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum, and pulmonary hypoplasia is necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0480"></a>11. Baseline assessment of renal function should include renal and bladder ultrasonography, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, and electrolytes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0485"></a>12. Circumcision is advisable in the absence of a structural penile abnormality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0490"></a>13. Early intervention is indicated for evidence of bladder outlet obstruction and preferably with a percutaneous suprapubic tube.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0495"></a>14. Upper urinary tract reconstruction is controversial but clearly indicated for evidence of declining renal function in the presence of recurrent upper tract infections or progression of the hydroureteronephrosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0500"></a>15. Orchidopexy is best performed early in life because this affords the most likely prospect of a successful single-stage procedure, as well as the perspective of preservation of germ cells.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0505"></a>16. Abdominal wall reconstruction has demonstrated improved bladder emptying, a more effective cough, and improved defecation, though long-term utility for appearance is still debatable.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_104"></span><span id="pagebreak_105"></span>
</body>
</html>
