<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0037"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">37</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000379">Lower Urinary Tract Reconstruction in Children</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">John C. Thomas, Douglass B. Clayton, and Mark C. Adams</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">augmentation; bladder neck channel; continent urinary diversion; reconstruction; urinary tract; urodynamics</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch037_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</div>
</section>
<section>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Re view</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0220">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1410"></a>1. Bladder volume (mL) in children is equal to 30 × (age in years + 2) or for infants, 7 × weight (kg).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1415"></a>2. Intermittent catheterization must be taught and accepted by the patient and caregiver before any urinary reconstruction is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1420"></a>3. There is no test that ensures the patient will be able to void spontaneously and empty well after bladder augmentation or reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1425"></a>4. Most patients prefer to catheterize an abdominal wall stoma rather than the native urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1430"></a>5. Bladder neck bulking agents are not particularly effective in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1435"></a>6. When placing an artificial sphincter it should be placed at the bladder neck in females and in prepubertal males.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1440"></a>7. One-third of patients will require further surgery after augmentation cystoplasty because of various problems.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1445"></a>8. Bacteriuria is common after intestinal cystoplasty. After intestinal cystoplasty, routine bladder irrigation should be performed to evacuate inspissated mucus.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1450"></a>9. The use of stomach for bladder augmentation should be reserved for patients who have short-gut syndrome or who have received heavy pelvic irradiation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1455"></a>10. Delayed spontaneous perforation of the bowel segment after intestinal cystoplasty occurs in approximately 5% of patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1460"></a>11. Most secondary vesicoureteral reflux will resolve after successful bladder reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1465"></a>12. Nonfunctional bladders may need to be cycled to determine their true capacity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1470"></a>13. Removing the ileal-cecal valve from the gastrointestinal tract in patients with neurogenic bladder and bowel dysfunction may result in intractable diarrhea.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1475"></a>14. It has been noted that there appears to be an increased incidence of malignant tumors in the gastric segment of patients who have had a gastrocystoplasty.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1480"></a>15. When the appendix is used to create a flap valve, the distance to the skin should be as short as possible to facilitate ease of catheterization.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1485"></a>16. The Young-Dees-Leadbetter bladder neck reconstruction in children with neurogenic sphincter dysfunction has had limited success.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1490"></a>17. Occlusion of the bladder neck in children with neurogenic sphincter incompetence can result in the unmasking or development of detrusor hostility manifest by a decrease in bladder compliance or increase in detrusor hyperreflexia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1495"></a>18. Ileal reservoirs have been noted to have lower basal pressures and less motor activity when created for continent urinary diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1500"></a>19. Essentially every patient after augmentation with an ileal or colonic intestinal segment has an increase in serum chloride and a decrease in serum bicarbonate levels, although severe acidosis is rare if renal function is normal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1505"></a>20. Severe episodes of hypokalemic hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis after acute gastrointestinal illnesses have been noted after gastrocystoplasty.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1510"></a>21. The majority of patients suffering bladder perforations after augmentation cystoplasty have a neurogenic etiology.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_123"></span><span id="pagebreak_124"></span><span id="pagebreak_125"></span><span id="pagebreak_126"></span><span id="pagebreak_127"></span><span id="pagebreak_128"></span>
</body>
</html>
