<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0043"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">43</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000434">Management of Pediatric Kidney Stone Disease</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Gregory E. Tasian, and Lawrence Copelovitch</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">epidemiologyevaluation; ultrasound; kidney stone disease; nephrolithiasis; outcomes; pediatrics; surgical technique</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch043_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0360"></a>1. Although reference ranges for 24-h urine metabolites in children who form stones are not as well standardized as for adults, initial workup should include a 24-h urine for volume, calcium, citrate, oxalate, uric acid, sodium, pH, and creatinine.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0365"></a>2. A metabolic abnormality is often present in pediatric stone formers; hypercalciuria and hypocitraturia are the most common abnormalities.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0370"></a>3. A kidney and bladder ultrasound is the imaging modality of choice in a patient with a suspected stone or in a known stone former.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0375"></a>4. There has been a dramatic increase in pediatric nephrolithiasis, especially among adolescent females.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0380"></a>5. Children with either hypercalciuria or hypocitraturia have a markedly increased rate of stone recurrence as compared to those without an identifiable metabolic abnormality.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0385"></a>6. Renal/ureteral calculi smaller than 5 mm are likely to spontaneously pass; larger calculi are more likely to require surgical intervention.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0390"></a>7. SWL to the kidney has been associated with an increased risk of hypertension.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0395"></a>8. Perioperative antibiotics are indicated for those patients requiring urologic instrumentation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0400"></a>9. Ureteroscopy (URS) and shockwave lithotripsy (SWL) are the recommended surgical intervention for ureteral stones and renal calculi smaller than 20 mm.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0405"></a>10. Ureteral stenting after a procedure should be considered in patients with solitary kidneys, staghorn calculi, large ureteral calculi, prior obstruction, or abnormal anatomy. It may also be used to dilate ureters too narrow to accommodate a ureteroscope.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0410"></a>11. Shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) has a poor success rate for stones with densities greater than 1000 Hounsfield units and those with previous urinary tract reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0415"></a>12. Contraindications for ureteroscopic stone management include stone burdens greater than 20 mm and anatomic abnormalities precluding retrograde access.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0420"></a>13. Distal ureteral stones are best managed ureteroscopically.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0425"></a>14. Ureteroscopy should be performed under general anesthesia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0430"></a>15. The most common intraoperative complication of ureteroscopy is ureteral injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0435"></a>16. Relative indications for PCNL include stone burden greater than 20 mm, lower pole calculi greater than 1 cm, and anatomic abnormalities that make stone clearance less likely.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0440"></a>17. Spinal deformities may alter the anatomic location of the kidney, increasing the risk of adjacent organ injury during percutaneous access.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0445"></a>18. Up to 50% of children with a reconstructed bladder will develop stones. Factors that play a role include stasis, bacterial colonization, retained mucus, or foreign body.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_148"></span>
</body>
</html>
