<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0120"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">120</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001208">Pharmacologic Management of Lower Urinary Tract Storage and Emptying Failure</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Karl-Erik Andersson, and Alan J. Wein</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder; emptying and voiding discussion; lower urinary tract</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch120_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0280">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1905"></a>1. The major neurohumoral stimulus for physiologic bladder contraction is acetylcholine-induced stimulation of postganglionic parasympathetic muscarinic cholinergic receptor sites in the bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1910"></a>2. The muscarinic receptor functions may be changed in different urologic disorders without an overt neurogenic cause.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1915"></a>3. Behavioral therapy should always be used in conjunction with drug therapy for overactive bladder (OAB).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1920"></a>4. Calcium channel antagonists are not effective in treating OAB.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1925"></a>5. Potassium channel openers available today are not effective in treating OAB.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1930"></a>6. The use of estrogens to treat stress urinary incontinence (SUI) has resulted in worsening of preexisting urinary incontinence in patients with SUI and urgency urinary incontinence and new-onset incontinence in patients who have not had it. The use of vaginal estrogen in the treatment of urogenital atrophy improves dryness, pruritus, dyspareunia, and physical findings. The vaginal route is more effective than oral administration.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1935"></a>7. Intravesical oxybutynin has shown some efficacy in treating OAB as well as in treating intestinal augmented OABs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1940"></a>8. Antimuscarinics may have effects on cognitive function, particularly in the elderly.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1945"></a>9. Antimuscarinics may be divided into tertiary and quaternary amines. The latter are not well absorbed and have limited ability to enter the central nervous system, unlike the tertiary amines.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1950"></a>10. Antimuscarinics may have adverse cardiac effects.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1955"></a>11. α<sub>1</sub>-adrenergic blockers are not effective in women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1960"></a>12. The human urinary bladder smooth muscle contains a mixed population of M<sub>2</sub> and M<sub>3</sub> subtypes, with M<sub>2</sub> receptors predominant (M<sub>2</sub> receptors predominant at least 3:1 versus M<sub>3</sub>). M<sub>3</sub> receptors are primarily responsible for the mediation of bladder contraction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1965"></a>13. Mirabegron is a β<sub>3</sub> agonist, the first commercially available drug of its type approved for the treatment of overactive bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1970"></a>14. PDE-5 inhibitors significantly improve International Prostate Symptom Score scores but do not improve peak flow rates when compared with placebo.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1975"></a>15. Urinary tract smooth muscle contraction and prostate smooth muscle contraction are mediated largely, if not exclusively, by α<sub>1</sub>-adrenergic receptors.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_456"></span><span id="pagebreak_457"></span><span id="pagebreak_458"></span><span id="pagebreak_459"></span><span id="pagebreak_460"></span><span id="pagebreak_461"></span><span id="pagebreak_462"></span>
</body>
</html>
