<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0013"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">13</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000136">Principles of Urologic Endoscopy</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Brian Duty, and Michael J. Conlin</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cystoscopy; endoscopy; equipment; guidelines; history; technique; ureteroscopy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch013_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0060">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0290"></a>1. Rigid cystourethroscopes are manufactured in sets consisting of an optical lens, bridge, sheath, and obturator.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0295"></a>2. Flexible cystourethroscopes are available in fiberoptic, standard-definition and high-definition digital models.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0300"></a>3. Cystourethroscope sizes are expressed using the French gauge system, with 1 Fr equaling a third of a millimeter in circumference.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0305"></a>4. The smallest-diameter cystourethroscope that can be used to perform the procedure should be selected to decrease the risk of genitourinary tract trauma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0310"></a>5. Antimicrobial prophylaxis is not recommended for diagnostic cystourethroscopy unless patient-related risk factors are present.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0315"></a>6. Increasing the hydrostatic pressure during scope passage and allowing men to observe the procedure have been prospectively shown to improve patient comfort during flexible cystourethroscopy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0320"></a>7. Semirigid ureteroscopy is used below the iliac vessels and flexible ureteroscopy above.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0325"></a>8. Semirigid ureteroscopes with two working channels permit better irrigation and the added safety of being able to pass a lithotripsy device through one channel when needing to fragment a stone engaged in a basket in the other channel.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0330"></a>9. Flexible ureteroscopes must be straight when passing a laser fiber or the working channel will be damaged.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0335"></a>10. The golden rule of safe laser lithotripsy: “Do not step on the pedal if you cannot see the tip of the fiber in contact with the stone.”</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0340"></a>11. Stone baskets made of nitinol maintain their shape, resist kinking, and allow disengagement of stones more reliably that stainless steel baskets.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0345"></a>12. Ureteral access sheaths facilitate repeated passage of flexible ureteroscopes and decrease the intrapelvic pressure during ureteroscopy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0350"></a>13. Mobile C-arm fluoroscopy is preferred because of greater mobility, improved image quality, and less scatter radiation exposure to the surgeon compared with urology tables with fixed fluoroscopy units.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0355"></a>14. A routine preoperative antibiotic should be given to all patients undergoing ureteroscopy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0360"></a>15. Normal saline should be used as irrigation during ureteroscopy to prevent absorption of a hypotonic solution.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_37"></span>
</body>
</html>
