<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0069"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">69</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000690">Evaluation and Management of Erectile Dysfunction</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Arthur L. Burnett II , and Ranjith Ramasamy</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">erectile dysfunction; intracavernosal injection; PDE5 inhibitors; shared decision making; testosterone replacement</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch069_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. The prevalence of ED in the adult male is 20% and is correlated with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. Men with ED are 45% more likely than men without ED to experience a cardiac event within 5 years of diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. The International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire has five domains: erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse satisfaction, and overall satisfaction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. Erections observed with nocturnal penile tumescence monitoring do not necessarily equate with erections sufficient for sexual performance.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. Cavernous arterial insufficiency is suggested when peak systolic velocity is less than 25 cm/s. A peak systolic velocity greater than 35 cm/s defines normal cavernous arterial inflow.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. Testosterone circulates as free, bound to albumin, and bound to SHBG. Free testosterone and albumin-bound testosterone comprise the bioavailable testosterone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. Testosterone production is circadian, with the peak occurring in the morning. To evaluate testosterone status, blood should be drawn in the morning (between 7 AM and 11 AM).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. Penile revascularization is reserved for patients in whom it is most likely to be successful: patients with a history of perineal trauma, age younger than 55 years, nondiabetic, nonsmoker, no venous leak, and a documented stenotic lesion in the internal pudendal artery on angiography.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. Endocrine conditions that may be associated with erectile dysfunction include hypogonadism, hyperthyroidism, and diabetes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. Induction of a penile erection requires release of nitric oxide from penile nerve endings and vascular endothelium.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. Nitrate use in any form is an absolute contraindication for the use of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. Penile rehabilitation following radical prostatectomy using PDE5 inhibitors has not proved efficacious.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0630"></a>13. The vasoactive drugs commonly injected to produce an erection include prostaglandin E, papaverine, and phentolamine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0635"></a>14. Predictors for the development of ED include older age, lower education, diabetes, cardiovascular disease (such as hypertension and stroke), cigarette smoke exposure (active and passive), and overweight condition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0640"></a>15. Intracavernosal pharmacotherapy is contraindicated for men with psychological instability, a history or risk for priapism, histories of severe coagulopathy or unstable cardiovascular disease, reduced manual dexterity, and use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_257"></span><span id="pagebreak_258"></span>
</body>
</html>
