<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0060"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">60</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000604">Tuberculosis and Parasitic Infections of the Genitourinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Alicia H. Chang, Brian G. Blackburn,, and Michael Hsieh</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">genitourinary tract; parasitic infection; tuberculosis</div>
</section>
<!-- <section> -->
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch060_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<section>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0160">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0850"></a>1. Untreated genitourinary TB can lead to irreparable tissue damage and extensive fibrosis, with serious consequences such as renal failure and infertility.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0855"></a>2. The principal route by which genitourinary TB develops is via hematogenous spread, localized to only the genito-urinary tract or disseminated to multiple organ systems.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0860"></a>3. Genitourinary TB is associated with nonspecific symptoms and can be indolent, with fewer than 20% presenting with constitutional symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0865"></a>4. Eighty percent of genitourinary TB occurs in the kidney, and typical laboratory findings include sterile pyuria or hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0870"></a>5. Ureteral TB can lead to strictures throughout the ureter and impart a pipestem or beaded corkscrew appearance on imaging; bladder TB can lead to severe contracture and is a late complication more common in developing countries.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0875"></a>6. Another common presentation of genitourinary TB is chronic prostatitis that persists despite multiple course of antibiotics.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0880"></a>7. The gold standard for diagnosis of genitourinary TB is a positive AFB culture from urine or tissue biopsy. First void urine is the best sample for culture.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0885"></a>8. Genitourinary TB can also be made with alternate methods of diagnosis such as nucleic acid amplification of <span class="italic">M. tuberculosis</span> or the presence of granulomas on histopathology examination of tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0890"></a>9. Genitourinary TB generates a wide spectrum of imaging findings. The test of choice depends on disease location. All patients should also have a chest x-ray to exclude concomitant infectious pulmonary TB.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0895"></a>10. Combination therapy with first-line antituberculous drugs achieves the best cure rates in the shortest time frame and should start with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0900"></a>11. Surgical interventions are performed to relieve urinary obstruction, to drain infected material, to remove nonworking infected kidneys in cases resisting cure, to improve medically resistant hypertension secondary to a functionally excluded kidney, or to reconstruct the urinary tract.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0905"></a>12. The optimal timing of surgery is 4 to 6 weeks after the initiation of therapy. This delay allows active inflammation to subside, the bacillary load to decrease, and lesions to stabilize.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0910"></a>13. Monitoring for relapse is important after treatment of genitourinary TB because it can occur in up to 22% of cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0915"></a>14. Rifampin resistance serves as a surrogate marker for MDR TB.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0920"></a>15. <span class="italic">S. haematobium</span> has a terminal spine and dwells principally in the perivesical venous plexuses.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0925"></a>16. Schistosomiasis may cause inflammatory polyps of the bladder, sandy spots in the bladder (which represent submucosal egg deposition), calcification of the entire outline of the bladder, and strictures of the ureter (usually in the distal portion) with hydronephrosis. It may be associated with bladder cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0930"></a>17. Squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder is the most common histologic variant occurring as a result of schistosomiasis. These cancers are usually well differentiated or verrucous and therefore carry an overall good prognosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0935"></a>18. <span class="italic">W. bancrofti</span> accounts for 90% of human LF.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0940"></a>19. Obstructive lymphatic disease typically occurs in people who have multiple reinfections following the initial infection with filaria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0945"></a>20. <span class="italic">W. bancrofti</span> results in chyluria and filarial hydrocele and occasional extensive scrotal and penile lymphedema.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0950"></a>21. Echinococcosis may result in cysts in the kidney; cyst rupture or spillage during surgical removal can cause anaphylaxis. <a id="pg222"></a>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<!-- </section> -->
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="s0030"></span><span id="f0010"></span><span id="f0015"></span><span id="t0010"></span><span id="pagebreak_219"></span><span id="pagebreak_220"></span><span id="pagebreak_221"></span><span id="pagebreak_222"></span><span id="pagebreak_223"></span>
</body>
</html>
