<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0004"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">4</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000045">Urinary Tract Imaging</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Basic Principles of Urologic Ultrasonography</h2>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Bruce R. Gilbert, and Pat F. Fulgham</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">sonoelastography; urinary tract imaging; urologic ultrasound</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch004_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0145">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0885"></a>1. One cycle per second is known as 1 hertz (Hz). High-frequency ultrasonic transducers of 6 to 10 MHz are used to image structures near the surface. Deeper structures require lower frequencies of 3.5 to 5 MHz. Axial resolution improves with increasing frequency, and depth of penetration decreases with increasing frequency.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0890"></a>2. Resistive index is the peak velocity minus the end-diastolic velocity over the peek systolic velocity. This is measured using the color flow Doppler with spectral display and is used to characterize renal artery stenosis, ureteral obstruction, and penile arterial insufficiency.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0895"></a>3. By convention, the liver is used as a benchmark for echogenicity. By convention, the cephalad aspect of the structure is to the left of the image.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0900"></a>4. Ultrasonography may produce injury due to mechanical effects caused by cavitation or by heat generation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0905"></a>5. With the exception of some indinavir stones, all renal and ureteral calculi may be detected by helical CT.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0910"></a>6. The advantage of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is high-contrast resolution of soft tissue on T1-weighted images. Fluid has a low signal and appears dark on T1-weighted images; on T2-weighted images, fluid has a high signal and appears bright. Gadolinium increases the brightness of T1-weighted images. Hemorrhage within a cyst results in a high signal on T1-weighted images.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="textfl">
<a id="pg14"></a>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_12"></span><span id="pagebreak_13"></span><span id="pagebreak_14"></span>
</body>
</html>
