<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0029"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">29</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900029X">Management Strategies for Vesicoureteral Reflux</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Antoine E. Khoury, and Elias Wehbi</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bowel and bladder dysfunction; lower urinary tract; pediatric urology; urodynamics; voiding dysfunction</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch029_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0240">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1585"></a>1. Approximately one-third of the siblings of patients with reflux will have reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1590"></a>2. Reflux that is inherited is thought to be due to an autosomal dominant pattern.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1595"></a>3. There is a frequent association of constipation and encopresis with reflux and UTIs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1600"></a>4. If both the ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) and ureterovesical junction (UVJ) require operative repair, the UPJ should be repaired first.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1605"></a>5. There is an association of renal maldevelopment with high grades of reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1610"></a>6. The cardinal renal anomalies associated with reflux are multicystic dysplastic kidney and renal agenesis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1615"></a>7. Women with UTIs and reflux who have undergone reimplantation will still be at significant risk for UTIs during pregnancy and should be monitored.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1620"></a>8. Almost 80% of low-grade and half of grade III reflux will resolve spontaneously.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1625"></a>9. Sterile reflux is benign.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1630"></a>10. Cohen’s cross-trigonal technique of ureteral reimplantation is particularly well suited for small bladders and thick-walled bladders.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1635"></a>11. There is a 10% to 15% incidence of contralateral reflux after unilateral reflux is repaired.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1640"></a>12. Prophylactic bilateral reimplantation for unilateral reflux is not indicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1645"></a>13. Reflux is unlikely to be of any clinical significance in the absence of infection in a patient with normal bladder function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1650"></a>14. The greatest risk for postinfection renal scarring is in the first year of life.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1655"></a>15. Reflux associated with a paraureteral diverticulum resolves at a similar rate to primary reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1660"></a>16. There is a 10-fold lower frequency of vesicoureteral reflux in female children of African descent.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1665"></a>17. The endoscopic repair of reflux is less invasive and less durable than the open surgical repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1670"></a>18. A 5:1 tunnel length–ureteral diameter ratio should be achieved in antireflux surgery for best results.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1675"></a>19. Bladder infections (UTIs) and their accompanying inflammation can also cause reflux by lessening compliance, elevating intravesical pressures, and distorting and weakening the ureterovesical junction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1680"></a>20. Modern management of reflux does not include routine evaluation through cystoscopy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1685"></a>21. Vesicoureteral reflux, particularly reflux of higher grades, may be associated with renal dysplasia, which often appears scintigraphically identical to postinfection pyelonephritic scars.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1690"></a>22. Reflux nephropathy is the most common cause of severe hypertension in children and young adults.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1695"></a>23. In a duplex system where one ureter refluxes and surgical reconstruction is indicated, both ureters should have a common sheath reimplantation because the paired ureters typically share blood supply along their adjoining wall, and mobilization as one unit with a “common sheath” preserves vascularity and minimizes trauma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1700"></a>24. Failure to identify and treat secondary causes of reflux is a common cause of the reappearance of reflux following correction. Foremost among these secondary causes are unrecognized neuropathic bladder and severe voiding dysfunction.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_87"></span><span id="pagebreak_88"></span><span id="pagebreak_89"></span><span id="pagebreak_90"></span><span id="pagebreak_91"></span><span id="pagebreak_92"></span>
</body>
</html>
