<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0095"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">95</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000951">Lower Urinary Tract Calculi</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Arvind P. Ganpule, and Mahesh R. Desai</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cystolithotomy; prepucial calculi; prostatic calculi; urethral calculi; vesical calculi</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch095_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0235">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0715"></a>1. Primary bladder calculi are most common in children younger than the age of 10, with a peak incidence at 2 to 4 years. The disease is much more common in boys than in girls.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0720"></a>2. The most common presentation of bladder stones is hematuria with lower urinary tract symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0725"></a>3. Children with bladder stones often present with abdominal discomfort, dysuria, frequency, and hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0730"></a>4. Pulling the penis, in children, can suggest the presence of bladder stone but its is not specific or sensitive.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0735"></a>5. The options for treatment of bladder stones are medical management, extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy, transurethral lithotripsy, suprapubic cystolithotomy, suprapubic cystolithotripsy, and open surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0740"></a>6. The advantages of percutaneous approach in bladder stones are safety and efficacy and potentially lesser risk to the urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0745"></a>7. Urethral calculi amount to 0.3% to 1% of all stone disease, and obstructing urethral calculus is a very rare presentation of lower urinary tract urolithiasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0750"></a>8. More commonly urethral calculi patients present with acute painful retention of urine from sudden impaction of the stone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0755"></a>9. Patients with at least one symptom of prostatitis are 3.2 times more likely to harbor a significant prostatic calculus than age-matched asymptomatic group.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0760"></a>10. The common factors associated with prepucial calculi are severe phimosis along with poor hygiene and low socioeconomic status.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0765"></a>11. Plain x-ray film shows calculi in 14% prepucial calculi in patients.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_366"> </span><span id="pagebreak_367"></span><span id="pagebreak_368"></span>
</body>
</html>
