<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0035"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">35</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000355">Functional Disorders of the Lower Urinary Tract in Children</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Paul F. Austin, and Abhishek Seth</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">child; daytime incontinence; nocturnal enuresis; urinary bladder; urinary bladder/physiology; urinary incontinence; urination disorders</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<div id="p0010"></div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch035_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</section><span id="pagebreak_115"></span>
<section>


<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="116" id="pagebreak_116"></span>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0060">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0290"></a>1. Immature detrusor sphincter coordination manifested as detrusor hypercontractility and interrupted voiding commonly occurs in the first 2 years of life and results in functional bladder outflow obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0295"></a>2. Even in newborns, micturition does not occur during sleep, suggesting modulation of micturition by higher centers.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0300"></a>3. The association of constipation with urologic pathology is referred to as <span class="italic">bladder bowel dysfunction or BBD.</span> Abnormalities of bowel function are commonly present in young children with voiding dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0305"></a>4. Giggle incontinence often results in complete emptying of the bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0310"></a>5. In patients who develop acquired bladder sphincter dysfunction, a significant proportion also have bowel dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0315"></a>6. There is a significant association of bladder dysfunction with nonresolution of high-grade vesicoureteral reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0320"></a>7. Nocturnal urine output in many enuretic children is in excess of bladder reservoir capacity during sleep.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0325"></a>8. Many enuretic children have a marked reduction in functional bladder capacity when compared with age-matched controls and may have detrusor instability as well.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0330"></a>9. Overactive bladder is the most common lower urinary tract disorder in children, with a peak incidence between 5 and 7 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0335"></a>10. Behavioral and emotional disorders occur in 20% to 30% of children with lower urinary tract disorders.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0340"></a>11. Vaginal reflux (vaginal entrapment, vaginal voiding) is characterized by incontinence following normal voiding in the absence of other LUT symptoms. It is commonly seen in prepubertal girls, and the typical history is that of wetting of undergarments about 10 to 15 minutes following a normal void. It can often be associated with labial adhesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0345"></a>12. Pollakiuria is a disorder characterized by a very high daytime frequency of micturition (sometimes as high as 50 times per day). A key aspect of this syndrome, which differentiates it from OAB and can often clinch the diagnosis, is that the symptoms are limited to the daytime. It is seen in early childhood (4 to 6 years of age) in both genders and can be associated with stressors such as a history of recent death or life-threatening event in the family. Usually, it runs a benign, self-limited course over a period of approximately 6 months.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0350"></a>13. All children with LUTD should receive behavioral modification as treatment. Behavioral modification includes demystification, education, counseling, timed voiding, relaxation techniques, monitoring of stool consistency, and diary registration of bladder and bowel emptying patterns.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0355"></a>14. The use of an alarm in the treatment of enuresis seems best fit for motivated patients and families and for children without polyuria but with low voided volume. Desmopressin seems best suited for children with nocturnal polyuria and normal bladder reservoir function, for those with infrequent wet episodes, and for families for whom alarm treatment has failed or who have refused alarm treatment.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
