<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0141"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">141</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001415">Orthotopic Urinary Diversion</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Eila C. Skinner and Siamak Daneshmand</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder cancer; continent urinary diversion; cystectomy; orthotopic diversion</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_547"></span><span id="pagebreak_548"></span><span id="pagebreak_549"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch141_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>

</div>

<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0850"></a>1. Urinary diversion has developed along three paths: conduit, continent cutaneous diversion, and most recently orthotopic diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0855"></a>2. Long-term complications of the ileal and colon conduits include stomal stenosis, peristomal hernia, pyelonephritis, calculus formation, ureteral obstruction, and renal deterioration.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0860"></a>3. The major long-term problems with continent cutaneous diversion relate to function of the efferent continence mechanism, and surgical revision is often required.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0865"></a>4. The orthotopic neobladder allows for volitional voiding, avoids the need for an appliance and only require self-catheterization in a minority of patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0870"></a>5. 80%–90% of males and 75% of females undergoing cystectomy are potential candidates for orthotopic reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0875"></a>6. Patient must have a healthy urethra and adequate external sphincter function to maintain continence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0880"></a>7. The bowel segment used for the reservoir should be completely detubularized and reconstructed into a spherical shape.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0885"></a>8. Ultimate storage volume of the mature pouch should be at least 300–500 mL at low pressure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0890"></a>9. The presence of CIS, multifocal tumor, or extravesical disease should not preclude orthotopic diversion if frozen section of the urethral margin is negative at surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0895"></a>10. The most significant risk factor for a urethral tumor recurrence in men after orthotopic diversion is the presence of prostatic stromal invasion on final pathology.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0900"></a>11. The most important risk factor in women for urethral tumor involvement is bladder neck or anterior vaginal wall involvement with cancer, best evaluated on bimanual examination under anesthesia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0905"></a>12. Intraoperative frozen-section analysis of the urethral margin accurately identifies urethral involvement in both men and women. Preoperative biopsy of the prostatic urethra or bladder neck is not mandatory.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0910"></a>13. Local pelvic recurrence should occur in less than 10% of patients undergoing cystectomy and rarely interferes with the function of the neobladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0915"></a>14. Adequate renal function (eGFR exceeding 35 or 40 mL/min) is recommended for patients considering continent diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0920"></a>15. Older age and obesity are not contraindications to orthotopic diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0925"></a>16. Orthotopic diversion can be performed after prior pelvic irradiation or radical prostatectomy in carefully selected male and female patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0930"></a>17. In patients with prior bowel resection the prior anastomosis should be taken down and that segment used for the orthotopic diversion rather than choosing a new site, to avoid devascularization of the bowel.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0935"></a>18. The striated rhabdosphincter muscle fibers and associated innervation from the pudendal nerve are concentrated in the area anterior and lateral to the proximal urethra in both males and females.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0940"></a>19. In male patients, one should obtain careful control of the dorsal venous complex, and avoidance of deep suture bites into the pelvic floor muscles is critical.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0945"></a>20. In female patients, the endopelvic fascia and levator muscles should not be disturbed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0950"></a>21. Reservoirs made from ileum or combined ileum and colon appear to have the best physiologic properties for orthotopic diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0955"></a>22. Isolation of the segment of bowel to be used for the diversion must be performed carefully to preserve blood supply to the pouch and bowel anastomosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0960"></a>23. The addition of an antireflux mechanism does not appear to be necessary for preservation of the upper tracts and prevention of infections, at least in the intermediate term.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0965"></a>24. Daytime continence develops gradually over 3–6 months in most patients and is ultimately achieved in 80%–90% of both male and female patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0970"></a>25. Persistent nocturnal incontinence is common, observed in 20%–50% of patients. Nocturnal continence may continue to improve beyond 12 months from surgery and may improve with timed voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0975"></a>26. Factors influencing continence rates include age, intestinal segment used, and application of a prostate-sparing technique.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0980"></a>27. Failure to empty or urinary retention has been reported in 4%–10% of men and 20%–60% of women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0985"></a>28. Early morbidity and mortality of cystectomy and orthotopic diversion are not increased compared with ileal conduit.<a id="pg550"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="550" id="pagebreak_550"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0990"></a>29. Undrained urine leak is best managed using percutaneous drains and bilateral nephrostomy tubes when necessary. Early open surgical revision should be avoided.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0995"></a>30. The majority of late urologic complications related to the neobladder can be managed using endoscopic techniques.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1000"></a>31. Patients require regular follow-up imaging to identify upper tract obstruction and stones, which may be clinically silent.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1005"></a>32. Follow-up should include physical and pelvic examination and urethral cytology to identify urethral recurrence, which occurs in approximately 10% of males and rarely in females.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1010"></a>33. Most quality-of-life studies that have evaluated and compared patients undergoing various forms of urinary diversion have been criticized for methodologic problems that limit their conclusions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1015"></a>34. The current body of published literature is insufficient to conclude that any form of urinary diversion is superior to another on the basis of health-related quality-of-life outcomes, though most studies report better body image with neobladders.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
