<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0155"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">155</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001555">Open Radical Prostatectomy</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Edward M. Schaeffer, Alan W. Partin,, and Herbert Lepor</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">localized prostate cancer; radical prostatectomy; radical retropubic prostatectomy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch155_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
    </div>
</section>
<section>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0190">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1200"></a>1. The dorsal vein has three major branches: a superficial branch in the midline and two lateral branches that span over the lateral aspects of the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1205"></a>2. The prostate is covered with three distinct fascial layers: Denonvilliers fascia, prostatic fascia, and levator fascia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1210"></a>3. Denonvilliers fascia is most prominent and dense near the base of the prostate and overlying the seminal vesicles and thins dramatically more caudad at its termination at the striated sphincter.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1215"></a>4. Laterally, the prostatic fascia fuses with the levator fascia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1220"></a>5. Following radical prostatectomy, 15% to 20% of men develop an inguinal hernia. It is usually an indirect inguinal hernia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1225"></a>6. The final decision whether to preserve the neurovascular bundles is made at surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1230"></a>7. Findings that would indicate a neurovascular bundle should be resected include palpable induration in the lateral pelvic fascia, a neurovascular bundle that appears fixed to the prostate, and insufficient tissue on the posterolateral aspect of the specimen.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1235"></a>8. Thermal energy should never be used on or near the neurovascular bundles.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1240"></a>9. Bladder neck contractures occur in less than 10% of patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1245"></a>10. Factors important for recovery of erectile function include patient age, preoperative potency status, and preservation of the neurovascular bundles.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1250"></a>11. Potency improves with time such that in one study, 42% of patients were potent at 3 months and 73% at a year.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1255"></a>12. In a randomized study using sural nerve grafting to preserve potency in patients in whom a neurovascular bundle needed to be sacrificed, there was no difference in those grafted versus those who were not.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1260"></a>13. Salvage radical prostatectomy should only be considered in men who have unequivocally clinically localized prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1265"></a>14. Complications following salvage radical prostatectomy include 50% incontinence, 24% anastomotic stricture, and nearly universal erectile dysfunction, with approximately a 45% recurrence rate at 5 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1270"></a>15. Complete excision of the seminal vesicle during radical prostatectomy is recommended for cancer control.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1275"></a>16. Surgery should be deferred for 6 to 8 weeks after biopsy and 3 months after a transurethral resection of the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1280"></a>17. During pelvic lymphadenectomy, one should preserve the lymphatic tissue covering the external iliac artery, which drains the lower extremity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1285"></a>18. Accessory pudendal arteries should be preserved.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1290"></a>19. The most common site of a positive margin occurs at the apex, followed by the posterior and the posterolateral prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1295"></a>20. The bladder mucosa should be advanced so that the urethral vesicle anastomosis opposes mucosa to mucosa, is watertight, and is tension free.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1300"></a>21. If postoperative phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors are to be used, on demand is preferred to daily dosing.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1305"></a>22. Aberrant pudendal arteries may arise from the obturator, inferior vesical, and superior vesical arteries and should be preserved so as not to compromise the blood supply to the penis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1310"></a>23. Wide excision of the neurovascular bundle should be considered when there is inadequate tissue covering the posterolateral surface of the prostate once the prostate has been removed. The surgeon does not have to make the decision about whether to excise or preserve the neurovascular bundle until the prostate is removed, and, if there is not enough soft tissue covering the prostate, one can excise the neurovascular bundle then.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1315"></a>24. If there is troublesome bleeding from the dorsal vein complex at any point, the surgeon should completely divide the dorsal vein complex over the urethra and oversew the end.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1320"></a>25. Patients requiring acute transfusions for hypotension after radical prostatectomy should undergo exploration to evacuate the pelvic hematoma in an effort to decrease the likelihood of bladder neck contracture and incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1325"></a>26. Rectal stimulation or manipulation is prohibited in the postoperative period.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_593"></span><span id="pagebreak_594"></span><span id="pagebreak_595"></span><span id="pagebreak_596"></span>
</body>
</html>
