<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0073"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">73</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000732">Diagnosis and Management of Peyronie’s Disease</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Allen D. Seftel, and Hailiu Yang</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">Clostridium histolyticum; collagenase; erectile dysfunction; interferon; male hypogonadism; Nesbit procedure; penile graft; penile modeling; penile prosthesis; Peyronie's disease; vacuum erection device</div>
</section>
<section>
 
<section>
	<span id="s0010"></span>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<!-- <h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0020">Answers</h2> -->
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch073_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
<div id="p0675"></div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0130">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0780"></a>1. There are two phases in the natural history of PD: the acute phase, in which changes occur, and the stable chronic phase, which is typically marked by 12 months onset and 6 months of stable curvature.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0785"></a>2. The incidence of PD is between 3% and 9% with a peak age of 50 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0790"></a>3. There is a high association (33%) of diabetes with PD.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0795"></a>4. Preoperative erectile function correlates strongly with postoperative results.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0800"></a>5. Patients with poor-quality erections preoperatively who have grafting procedures are likely to have significant problems postoperatively with erectile function. These patients should be steered toward inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP) placement with or without adjunct procedures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0805"></a>6. PD is currently recognized as a wound healing disorder of the tunica albuginea.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0810"></a>7. Sixty percent to seventy percent of plaques are located on the dorsal aspect of the tunica albuginea and are usually associated with the septum.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0815"></a>8. The natural history of PD studies suggest that no more than 13% of patients will experience improvement of deformity.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0820"></a>9. Eleven percent of all patients undergoing prostatectomy developed fibrotic changes in their penis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0825"></a>10. Penile shortening and inability to have intercourse are the two most common and consistent risk factors for emotional distress and relationship problems associated with PD.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0830"></a>11. Primary indications to perform a grafting procedure in a patient with a strong erection are severe curvature in excess of 70 degrees, an indentation causing an unstable penis or hinge effect, and a short penis. Poor rigidity is an absolute contraindication to performing a grafting procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0835"></a>12. Ventral curvatures, when repaired with grafting, have a much higher rate of complete ED.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0840"></a>13. IMPRESS Phase 3 RCTs showed that CCH resulted in an improvement of 17 degrees versus 9 degrees (control) in patients with stable dorsal plaques between 30 and 90 degrees. Those who had unstable hinges, calcified plaques, hourglass defects, severe ED, or ventral plaques were excluded from the study. However, cost of treatment presents a significant barrier.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0845"></a>14. Injection site pain and bruising are common and usually benign. However, one should always suspect the rare but dreaded complication of penile fracture in these patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0850"></a>15. While graft incision/partial excision do typically result in less penile length loss versus plication, a patient should not expect to increase his penile length with any procedure.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, ed 12 ,</span> on the <a>Expert Consult website</a>.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="pagebreak_272"></span><span id="pagebreak_273"></span><span id="pagebreak_274"></span>
</body>
</html>
