<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0015"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">15</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900015X">Basic Energy Modalities in Urologic Surgery</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Michael W. Sourial, Shubha K. De, Manoj Monga, and Bodo E. Knudsen</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bipolar; cautery; electrosurgery; Holmium:YAG; intracorporeal lithotripsy; laser; monopolar</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch015_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0350"></a>1. When alternating current is used, the term for resistance is impedance; impedance increases when charring occurs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0355"></a>2. Lasers with shorter wavelengths have a much greater amount of scatter than those with longer wavelengths.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0360"></a>3. The depth of tissue penetration for Nd:YAG is 10 mm, KTP 1 to 2 mm, Ho:YAG 0.4 mm, and CO<sub>2</sub> no significant penetration.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0365"></a>4. The electrohydraulic probe produces a spark that creates a shock wave; one should place the probe 1 mm away from the stone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0370"></a>5. Stone composition and surface characteristics affect the efficiency of EHL, with uric acid stones taking the most time to fragment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0375"></a>6. The pneumatic device is the only modality that does not cut through wire, such as a safety guidewire or stone basket.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0380"></a>7. The ultrasonic probe results in vibration at the end of the probe that is transferred to the stone, causing it to fracture.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0385"></a>8. Ho:YAG laser stone fragmentation is primarily due to a photothermal effect.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0390"></a>9. Laser lithotripsy produces the smallest fragments and is useful for all stone compositions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0395"></a>10. The argon beam coagulator works by adding a column of argon gas that passes over the electrode, and then electrosurgical energy ionizes the argon gas and helps to displace the blood in the surgical field. Because argon is a noble gas, the current from the electrode is effectively transmitted to the underlying tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0400"></a>11. Bipolar delivery does not require a dispersive electrode (grounding pad). The active and return electrodes are integrated in the delivery handpiece.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0405"></a>12. The bipolar systems for sealing tissue have faster vessel sealing times with higher burst pressures compared with the ultrasonic device. However, the ultrasonic device has less thermal spread and smoke production.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0410"></a>13. Pneumatic probes are the least traumatic to ureteral tissue compared with laser, ultrasonic, and EHL.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_45"></span>
</body>
</html>
