<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0114"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">114</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001142">Urodynamic and Video-Urodynamic Evaluation of the Lower Urinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Benjamin M. Brucker, and Victor W. Nitti</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder outlet obstruction; bladder storage; CMG; compliance; cystometrogram; detrusor overactivity; emptying; incontinence; leak point pressure; neurogenic bladder; overactive bladder; PVR; stress incontinence; UDS; urodynamics; uroflow; video-urodynamics</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch114_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0085">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0465"></a>1. Urodynamics are performed in an unnatural setting and therefore does not always predict the findings with normal activity.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0470"></a>2. Normal uroflow is a bell-shaped curve.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0475"></a>3. EMG patch electrodes measure perineal muscle function with the assumption that it is reflective of urethral external sphincter function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0480"></a>4. To specifically measure external sphincter function, needle electrodes must be used.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0485"></a>5. Mean values for compliance are 40–120 mL/cm H<sub>2</sub>O.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0490"></a>6. Measurement of compliance is difficult to interpret; therefore, pressures during filling are more often used to predict outcome.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0495"></a>7. There are two types of leak-point pressures: (a) abdominal leak-point pressure, which is defined as the intravesical pressure at which urine leakage occurs due to increased abdominal pressure; and (b) detrusor leak-point pressure, which is a measure of detrusor pressure at which urine leakage occurs in the absence of a detrusor contraction or increased abdominal pressure. This measure is generally used in patients with decreased compliance or lower motor neuron disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0500"></a>8. Detrusor pressures that are sustained above 40 cm H<sub>2</sub>O lead to deterioration of the upper tracts.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0505"></a>9. Maximum urethra closure pressure is defined as the difference between peak urethral pressure and intravesical pressure and is normally between 40 and 60 cm H<sub>2</sub>O.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0510"></a>10. Bladder outlet obstruction index is defined by the equation: BOOI = Pdet Qmax <span>−</span> 2(Qmax). In men, a value greater than 40 is considered obstructed; a value less than 20 is considered unobstructed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0515"></a>11. A uroflow less than 12 mL/sec and Pdet greater than 25 cm H<sub>2</sub>O predict outlet obstruction in women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0520"></a>12. Detrusor external sphincter dyssynergia can be due to a neurologic lesion (above the sacral micturition center) or a learned disorder. The latter is considered dysfunctional voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0525"></a>13. Internal sphincter dyssynergia must be diagnosed by VUDS.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0530"></a>14. Stress incontinence, which is observed only when a coexisting prolapse is reduced, is referred to as occult or latent stress incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0535"></a>15. For internal sphincter dyssynergia to occur, the spinal cord lesion must be above the sympathetic outflow (T-10-L-1).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0540"></a>16. VUDS is the procedure of choice for documenting bladder neck dysfunction in men and women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0545"></a>17. In a neurologically normal person, the external sphincter progressively contracts with bladder filling and will also contract during an involuntary bladder contraction (guarding reflex). External sphincter relaxation is the first step in the micturition cycle and precedes the detrusor contraction.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_440"></span><span id="pagebreak_441"></span>
</body>
</html>
