<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0046"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">46</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900046X">Etiology, Diagnosis, and Management of Undescended Testis</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Julia Spencer Barthold, and Jennifer A. Hagerty</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cryptorchidism; gubernaculum; orchidopexy; subfertility; testicular descent; testicular germ cell tumor</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch046_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0155">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0955"></a>1. Gonadal determination involves separate genetic pathways for development of testis and ovary and <span class="italic">SRY</span> is a master switch in males that regulates downstream testis-determining genes<span class="italic">.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0960"></a>2. Differentiation of gonocytes, Sertoli and Leydig cells occurs between 5 and 9 weeks’ gestation and the gubernaculum, the guide for testicular descent, appears at 7 weeks.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0965"></a>3. Levels of the Leydig cell hormones testosterone and INSL3 peak between 14 and 17 weeks, and are critical for testicular descent.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0970"></a>4. Swelling of the gubernaculum, which starts in the second trimester, provides space for passage of the testis into the scrotum between 20 and 28 weeks.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0975"></a>5. Cryptorchidism occurs in 1%–4% of full-term males; both spontaneous descent (in the first few months of life, usually by 6 months) and reascent of testes may occur.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0980"></a>6. The causes of cryptorchidism are largely unknown, but birth weight, gestational age, and genetic and environmental risk factors likely contribute to disease risk.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0985"></a>7. Acquired cryptorchidism is not uncommon but is likely equivalent to cases diagnosed at birth. It may occur after scrotal testes are confirmed at birth, or after spontaneous descent of a cryptorchid testis, and may be more common in boys with retractile testes. Yearly testicular exams are recommended during childhood.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0990"></a>8. About 80% of undescended testes are palpable and 60%–70% are unilateral.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0995"></a>9. Epididymal anomalies and a patent processus vaginalis are common in cases of cryptorchidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1000"></a>10. Subsets of boys with cryptorchidism have subtle abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis during mini-puberty and/or reduced levels of hormones secreted by Sertoli cells, AMH, or inhibin B (INHB).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1005"></a>11. Orchidopexy is recommended for testes that remain undescended after 6 months of age; hormone therapy is not recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1010"></a>12. Laparoscopy is the procedure of choice and imaging studies are rarely useful in the diagnosis and treatment of nonpalpable abdominal cryptorchidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1015"></a>13. Immediate urologic consultation is required for all phenotypic male newborns with bilateral, nonpalpable testes for evaluation of a possible DSD. A newborn with a male phallus and bilateral nonpalpable gonads is potentially a genetic female (46,XX) with congenital adrenal hyperplasia until proven otherwise.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1020"></a>14. Sperm counts are reduced in at least 25% of formerly unilateral and the majority of formerly bilateral cryptorchid men, but paternity rates in the unilateral group are similar to control men.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1025"></a>15. Ad spermatogonia counts may predict fertility potential in some males with cryptorchidism<span class="bold">.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1030"></a>16. TGCT risk is 2–5 times higher in boys with cryptorchidism and is positively correlated with age at surgery.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_161"></span><span id="pagebreak_162"></span><span id="pagebreak_163"></span>
</body>
</html>
