<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0044"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">44</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000446">Management of Abnormalities of the External Genitalia in Boys</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Lane S. Palmer, and Jeffrey S. Palmer</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">adolescent; buried penis; child; circumcision; hernia; hydrocele; micropenis; penis; prepuce; scrotum; testis torsion; testis; varicocele</div>
</section>

<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch044_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div><span id="pagebreak_150"></span><span id="pagebreak_151"></span><span id="pagebreak_152"></span>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0160">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0990"></a>1. Primary phimosis resolves spontaneously in the vast majority of boys; fewer than 1% of 17-year-old boys have a phimotic prepuce.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0995"></a>2. Indications to facilitate preputial retractility include persistent primary phimosis, secondary phimosis, balanitis, posthitis, balanitis xerotica obliterans (BXO), and urinary tract infection (UTI).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1000"></a>3. The American Academy of Pediatrics acknowledges the potential health benefits of the circumcised penis thus warranting access to circumcision for families choosing it and endorse third-party payment for circumcision of male newborns.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1005"></a>4. Local or topical anesthetics should be administered routinely for circumcisions performed in the neonatal period.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1010"></a>5. Circumcisions should be deferred in the presence of other penile abnormalities detected in the newborn period that may require surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1015"></a>6. Health benefits of circumcision include reduction in rates of penile cancer, sexually transmitted diseases including HIV, UTIs, balanitis, and phimosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1020"></a>7. Topical application of corticosteroids can relax the phimotic ring in 70%–80% of cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1025"></a>8. The risk of complications from circumcision is 0.2%–5% with bleeding being the most common.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1030"></a>9. Circumcision revisions require the child to be under general anesthesia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1035"></a>10. Meatal stenosis occurs only in the circumcised penis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1040"></a>11. Topical corticosteroids fail to resolve penile adhesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1045"></a>12. BXO is a chronic infiltrative and scarring (cicatrix) skin condition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1050"></a>13. Micropenis is a normally formed penis that measures at least 2.5 SD below the mean size in the stretched length for age (&lt;1.9 cm in neonates).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1055"></a>14. Buried penis is not synonymous with micropenis as the penis is of normal stretched length.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1060"></a>15. The most common causes of micropenis include hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1065"></a>16. Patient evaluation includes karyotype, determination of serum LH and FSH concentrations; measurement of testosterone levels before and after hCG stimulation; serum studies of anterior pituitary function; and MRI of the brain to assess hypothalamus, anterior pituitary, and midbrain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1070"></a>17. In adulthood, most men with micropenis have male gender identity and satisfactory sexual function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1075"></a>18. Priapism can be ischemic (veno-occlusive, low flow), nonischemic (arterial, high flow), and stuttering (intermittent).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1080"></a>19. The most common cause for priapism in children is sickle cell disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1085"></a>20. The initial treatment of low-flow priapism due to sickle cell disease is conservative with hydration, oxygenation, alkalization, and transfusion. Evacuation of blood and irrigation of the corpora cavernosa along with intracavernous injection of alpha-adrenergic sympathomimetic agents can be done concurrently or after failure of conservative measures.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1090"></a>21. High-flow priapism is usually due to perineal trauma, such as a straddle injury. Angiographic embolization should be performed if spontaneous resolution fails to occur.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1095"></a>22. Transient but potentially prolonged periods (less than 2 h) of erection, stuttering priapism, can be treated with pseudoephedrine given at bedtime.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1100"></a>23. The prevalence of varicoceles in adolescent and adult men are similar, approximately 15%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1105"></a>24. Tall thin males are more commonly noted to have varicoceles, implicating a genetic predisposition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1110"></a>25. Varicoceles are commonly identified on examination and least commonly identified due to pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1115"></a>26. Testicular volume is most accurately measured using ultrasound.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1120"></a>27. Testicular hypotrophy of 15%–20% may arise in the presence of an ipsilateral varicocele that commonly resolves after varicocele repair but can resolve spontaneously as well.<a id="pg153"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="153" id="pagebreak_153"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1125"></a>28. Trends toward poorer sperm quality may be limited to a subset of affected males with varicocele, but grade and postoperative testicular catch-up growth do not reliably predict ultimate semen quality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1130"></a>29. Surgical success rates are similar with retroperitoneal (open or laparoscopic) or subinguinal approaches. Lymphatic-sparing techniques offer the lowest rates of hydrocele formation. The majority of hydroceles require surgical intervention.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1135"></a>30. Inguinal hernias develop in 1%–5% of children, more commonly in boys and premature infants. The propensity for the right side (3:1) is attributed to the later descent of the right testicle. Female gender, prematurity, age younger than 1 year, and history of cryptorchidism are risk factors for bilaterality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1140"></a>31. An intermittent bulge helps to distinguish a reducible inguinal hernia and communicating hydrocele from a scrotal hydrocele or hydrocele of the spermatic cord. If a bulge is not elicited at the time of examination, photographs of the bulge taken at home are diagnostically reliable.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1145"></a>32. Inguinal hernias should be repaired soon after diagnosis while hydroceles can often resolve spontaneously and warrant a period of observation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1150"></a>33. Surgical repair can be performed through an inguinal, scrotal, or laparoscopic approach. The inguinal approach carries the highest success rates at this time.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1155"></a>34. The causes of recurrent hernias (0.5%–1%) include failure to properly identify or ligate the sac during the original procedure; a tear in the sac, leaving a strip of peritoneum along the cord; damage to the floor; a weal internal inguinal ring; or an unrecognized direct hernia at the original exploration.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o1160"></a>35. Transperitoneal diagnostic laparoscopy offers a rapid, direct, and accurate inspection of the contralateral internal inguinal ring.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o1165"></a>36. Delay in presentation for acute scrotal pain may stem from patient embarrassment or denial, but also from lack of public awareness regarding torsion and the possible consequences.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o1170"></a>37. In cases where a reliable thorough history is taken and targeted physical examination is performed, a reliable diagnosis should be made in the majority of cases and adjunctive ultrasound serves to confirm a diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o1175"></a>38. Ultrasound features suggestive of torsion of the spermatic cord include absent blood flow, a “snail sign” (cord torsion), and heterogeneity of the parenchyma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0205">
<a id="o1180"></a>39. Testicular salvage rates from spermatic cord torsion are inversely related to duration and have some relationship to the degrees of torsion. Thus, in cases where torsion is highly suspected, emergent surgery should not be delayed by imaging studies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0210">
<a id="o1185"></a>40. Spermatic cord torsion occurring in the perinatal period is rarely salvageable when identified in the nursery and should be managed emergently when a change in physical examination has occurred.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0215">
<a id="o1190"></a>41. Appendage torsion is the most common cause of acute scrotum in prepubertal children. A “blue dot sign,” discoloration at the upper pole of the testis, may be seen through stretched scrotal skin. This is a self-limiting process requiring supportive care and analgesia management.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
