<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0021"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">21</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000215">Urologic Aspects of Pediatric Nephrology</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Michael C. Braun, and Chester J. Koh</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">acute kidney injury; chronic kidney disease; dialysis; end-stage renal disease (ESRD); glomerulonephritis; hematuria; hypertension; nephrotic syndrome; pediatric; proteinuria; renal transplantation</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>

    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch021_assessments.xhtml" height="730"></iframe>

</div>
<span id="pagebreak_61"></span><span id="pagebreak_62"></span>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0105">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0605"></a>1. Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) are the most common causes of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0610"></a>2. Prenatal and neonatal GFR is significantly lower than adult GFR levels.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0615"></a>3. The maintenance of the balance of sodium is an important function of the neonatal kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0620"></a>4. The newborn kidney has a limited capacity to excrete potassium and tends to have higher serum potassium values than older children.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0625"></a>5. Isolated microscopic hematuria is reported to occur in approximately 1% of school-age children.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0630"></a>6. Most children with microscopic hematuria will have spontaneous resolution within 1 year of presentation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0635"></a>7. Gross hematuria and a urinalysis with no RBCs but a positive heme dipstick is strongly suggestive of hemoglobinuria or myoglobinuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0640"></a>8. It is important to recognize that urine contains protein under physiologic conditions and especially with fever and exercise.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0645"></a>9. Transient proteinuria accounts for more than 75% of patients with isolated proteinuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0650"></a>10. If a patient with proteinuria has evidence of systemic disease or glomerular nephritis, testing should include C3, C4, and antinuclear antibody (ANA) screening.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0655"></a>11. Corticosteroids will induce a remission in the vast majority of children with nephrotic syndrome.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0660"></a>12. Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is seen in the majority of children with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0665"></a>13. Minimal change nephrotic syndrome is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in childhood.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0670"></a>14. Immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy is the most common primary cause of glomerulonephritis throughout the world.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0675"></a>15. HUS is a common cause of severe AKI in a previously healthy young child.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0680"></a>16. The hallmark of <span class="bold">RTA</span> is hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis (normal anion gap acidosis).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0685"></a>17. Children with distal RTA classically have hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypercalciuria, and nephrocalcinosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0690"></a>18. Hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis is the defining feature of Bartter syndrome.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0695"></a>19. RTA associated with hyperkalemia is also known as type 4 RTA.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0700"></a>20. Urologic anomalies are seen in up to 25% of patients with multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK), including renal hypoplasia/dysplasia, vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), and ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction.<a id="pg63"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="63" id="pagebreak_63"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0705"></a>21. ARPKD is caused by a mutation in the PKHD1 gene.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0710"></a>22. ADPKD is due to mutations in the polycystin-1 (PKD-1) or polycystin-2 (PKD2) genes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0715"></a>23. Urolithiasis remains underdiagnosed because many children are asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0720"></a>24. Calcium stones are currently the most prevalent stones in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0725"></a>25. Cystinuria results in decreased tubular reabsorption of cystine, ornithine, arginine, and lysine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0730"></a>26. The increase in the prevalence in pediatric hypertension in recent years is closely linked to increasing obesity rates in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0735"></a>27. Up to a quarter of patients have normal blood pressures outside of the office setting (“white coat” hypertension).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0740"></a>28. Therapeutic lifestyle changes are the initial intervention of choice for patients with primary hypertension without end-organ damage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0745"></a>29. Hospitalized pediatric patients with AKI have a nearly 15-fold increased mortality risk compared with patients without AKI.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0750"></a>30. Prerenal AKI requires prompt and vigorous fluid resuscitation with isotonic fluids.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0755"></a>31. Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) has become the standard of care because it delivers slow continuous correction of fluid overload and electrolyte imbalances.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o0760"></a>32. Causes of CKD in children are very different from those that cause CKD in adults and vary by age group within the pediatric population.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o0765"></a>33. The most common cause of anemia with CKD is a deficiency of erythropoietin.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o0770"></a>34. With CKD, kidney function declines in a nonlinear fashion, as the later stages are associated with a more rapid progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o0775"></a>35. Peritoneal dialysis is the most common initial modality for dialysis in children younger than 9 years of age and less than 20 kg.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o0780"></a>36. The unique benefits of renal transplantation include improved growth, neurocognitive development, and quality of life.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o0785"></a>37. The risk for acute cellular rejection in the first year after pediatric renal transplantation is less than 10% in living donor transplants.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o0790"></a>38. The risk for acute cellular rejection in the first year post transplant is approximately 15% in deceased donor transplants.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
