<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0005"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">5</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000057">Urinary Tract Imaging</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle1234">Basic Principles of Nuclear Medicine</h2>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Michael A. Gorin, and Steven P. Rowe</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">dynamic renal imaging; functional imaging; molecular imaging; nuclear medicine; PET; positron emission tomography; single-photon emission computed tomography; single-photon imaging; SPECT</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch005_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0085">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0425"></a>1. The most commonly used radiopharmaceutical agents for nuclear imaging of the kidneys are technetium <sup>99m</sup>Tc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (<sup>99m</sup>Tc-DTPA), <sup>99m</sup>Tc- mercaptoacetyltriglycine (MAG3), and <sup>99m</sup>Tc–dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0430"></a>2. <sup>99m</sup>Tc-DTPA and <sup>99m</sup>Tc-MAG3 are used to measure renal blood flow, determine differential renal function, and to evaluate for the presence and degree of renal obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0435"></a>3. <sup>99m</sup>Tc-DTPA is cleared by glomerular filtration, whereas <sup>99m</sup>Tc-MAG3 is cleared by tubular secretion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0440"></a>4. <sup>99m</sup>Tc-MAG3 is the preferred at most centers over <sup>99m</sup>Tc-DTPA because it has a higher extraction efficiency and is less impacted by changes in renal function</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0445"></a>5. <sup>99m</sup>Tc-DMSA is retained by cells of the proximal renal tubules and is used to evaluate for infection and the presence renal scarring.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0450"></a>6. <sup>99m</sup>Tc-DTPA and <sup>99m</sup>Tc-MAG3 can also be used to evaluate renovascular hypertension, transplant graft function, and vesicoureteral reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0455"></a>7. Molecular imaging of cancer is most commonly performed using the positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracer 2-deoxy-2-(<sup>18</sup>F)fluoro-D-glucose (<sup>18</sup>F-FDG)</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0460"></a>8. A number of genitourinary malignancies can be successfully imaged with <sup>18</sup>F-FDG PET, albeit with varying degrees of clinical utility beyond conventional anatomical imaging techniques.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0465"></a>9. Because <sup>18</sup>F-FDG is excreted in the urine, imaging with this radiotracer is typically performed to detect distant sites of disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0470"></a>10. <sup>18</sup>F-FDG has little role in imaging prostate cancer and a number of other radiotracers have been developed for this purpose.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0475"></a>11. Radiotracers targeting PSMA are the most promising class of agents for prostate cancer imaging and in many parts of the world have become the new standard of care for imaging this malignancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0480"></a>12. One of the most well-established indications for <sup>18</sup>F-FDG PET imaging is in the detection of residual seminomatous germ cell tumors following chemotherapy.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_16"></span>
</body>
</html>
