<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0154"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">154</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001543">Active Surveillance of Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Laurence Klotz</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">active surveillance; biomarkers; expectant management; imaging; prevention; prostate cancer</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch154_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
    </div>
</section>
<section>

<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="591" id="pagebreak_591"></span>
<a id="pg591"></a>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0055">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0250"></a>1. Microfocal Gleason pattern 3 occurs in most men with age, in all races and regions of the world.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0255"></a>2. The mutational burden of Gleason 3 is very favorable, and dramatically different from higher-grade cancer. Most oncogenic pathways characterized by specific genetic alterations are normal in Gleason pattern 3 and aberrant (deleted/amplified/mutated/overexpressed, etc.) in Gleason 4 and 5.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0260"></a>3. Gleason 6 (Grade Group 1) has no metastatic potential.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0265"></a>4. Cancer deaths reported in men with low-risk cancer managed conservatively are thought to be due to the co-existence of higher-grade cancer missed on the diagnostic biopsy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0270"></a>5. Misattribution of grade (25% to 30% of cases) is much more common than true biological progression from Gleason 3 to 4 or 5 (1% to 2.3% per year).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0275"></a>6. Factors that increase the risk of coexistent higher-grade cancer include PSA density (&gt;0.15), race (African American), and volume of cancer on biopsy (number of positive cores, extent of core involvement).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0280"></a>7. Newly diagnosed men on active surveillance should have a confirmatory biopsy within 1 year, targeting the undersampled areas of the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0285"></a>8. Following this, they should have PSA q 6 months, and periodic repeat biopsy (every 3 to 5 years).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0290"></a>9. MRI and targeted biopsy may replace serial systematic biopsies in very low-risk men. Since the NPV of MRI is a function of underlying risk, those at higher risk still warrant systematic biopsies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0295"></a>10. Clinicians managing patients on AS should use the opportunity of regular follow-up visits to counsel patients about the benefits of dietary and lifestyle modifications.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
