<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0117"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">117</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001178">Overactive Bladder</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">W. Stuart Reynolds, and Joshua A. Cohn</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">lower urinary tract symptoms; overactive bladder; urgency urinary incontinence; urinary frequency; urinary incontinence; urinary urgency</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch117_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0065">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0325"></a>1. DO is a urodynamic diagnosis. OAB is a symptom-based diagnosis, defined as urgency with or without urgency incontinence, usually with frequency and nocturia with no proven infection or other obvious pathology.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0330"></a>2. The pattern of voided volumes in patients with OAB is erratic.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0335"></a>3. Urgency with at least one other symptom is essential to the diagnosis of OAB.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0340"></a>4. The etiology of DO has been hypothesized to be due to neurogenic or myogenic disorders. Neurogenic disorders may involve (1) reduced suprapontine inhibition, (2) overexpression of primitive spinal bladder reflexes, (3) synaptic plasticity in which new reflexes develop as a response to C-fiber afferent neurons, and (4) sensitization of peripheral afferent terminals. Myogenic disorders involve spontaneous excitation, which may be a result of upregulation of surface membrane receptors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0345"></a>5. A frequency voiding chart or voiding diary is essential for assessing OAB.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0350"></a>6. The two main urodynamic findings with overactive bladder are DO and increasing filling sensation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0355"></a>7. Treatment of OAB should begin with conservative management, including lifestyle changes, followed by pharmacotherapy and, finally, for intractable cases, surgical therapy that involves either nerve stimulation or surgical procedures on the bladder itself.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0360"></a>8. Aging, neurologic disease, female gender, bladder outlet obstruction, and the metabolic syndrome are potential contributors to OAB.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_450"></span>
</body>
</html>
