<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0110"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">110</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001105">Physiology and Pharmacology of the Bladder and Urethra</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Toby C. Chai, and Lori A. Birder</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder pain; bladder; neurogenic bladder; neurourology; overactive bladder; pelvic floor; pharmacology; underactive bladder; urethra; urinary incontinence; uropharmacology; voiding dysfunction</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_423"></span><span id="pagebreak_424"></span>
<span id="pagebreak_425"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch110_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0245">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1575"></a>1. The bladder has two parts: the body, which lies above the ureteral orifices, and the base, consisting of the trigone and bladder neck.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1580"></a>2. Smooth muscle is able to adjust its length over a much wider range than skeletal muscle. Thus an empty bladder has a small intravesical space despite the amount of smooth muscle it contains.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1585"></a>3. There is a complete, competent ring of smooth muscle around the bladder neck in the male. This does not occur in the female.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1590"></a>4. In women the density of adrenergic innervation in the bladder neck is less than in men.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1595"></a>5. Myofibroblasts in the LP modulate physiologic interactions between the urothelium and detrusor.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1600"></a>6. Bladder wall blood flow is reduced by distention; in patients with decreased compliance, this effect is pronounced.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1605"></a>7. In the female, the external urethral sphincter covers the ventral surface of the urethra in a horseshoe configuration.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1610"></a>8. The levator ani pelvic floor muscle does not surround the ventral aspect of the urethra in either the male or the female.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1615"></a>9. The external urethral sphincter is composed of (1) periurethral striated muscle of the pelvic floor and (2) striated muscle within the urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1620"></a>10. The bladder urothelium serves a barrier function but is permeable to water to a limited degree and can actively transport sodium.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1625"></a>11. There is no definite evidence that the glycosaminoglycan (GAG) layer acts as a primary epithelial barrier.<a id="pg426"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="426" id="pagebreak_426"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1630"></a>12. Urothelial cells release chemical mediators such as NO, ATP, acetylcholine, and substance P that have excitatory and inhibitory actions on afferent nerves in the bladder wall.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1635"></a>13. Prostaglandins are released from the urothelium.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1640"></a>14. Uroplakin and tight junction proteins are important in maintaining the urothelial barrier function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1645"></a>15. The normal bladder at rest may be spontaneously active.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1650"></a>16. A low voiding pressure in women does not equate with impaired detrusor contractility.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1655"></a>17. The parasympathetic nerves from S2 to S4 excite the bladder and relax the urethra. They have afferent fibers. The lumbar sympathetic nerves inhibit the bladder body and excite the bladder base and urethra. They also have afferent fibers. The pudendal nerves (S2 to S4) excite the external urethral sphincter. Afferent nerve fibers travel with the pudendal nerve as well.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1660"></a>18. There may be parasympathetic afferent and efferent nerve interconnections at the level of the intramural ganglia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1665"></a>19. Pelvic nerve afferents monitor bladder volume and amplitude of the bladder contraction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1670"></a>20. The bladder neck and proximal urethra contain the largest density of bladder nerves.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1675"></a>21. Decreased afferent sensitivity or excitability in certain pathologic conditions, as well as aging, may be an important cause of impaired voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1680"></a>22. Activation of the parasympathetic pathway during voiding triggers the release of NO, which is a major inhibitor of urethral smooth muscle.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1685"></a>23. Cross organization may occur between bladder and bowel, uterus, pelvic urethra, vagina, and prostate. This may contribute to the chronic pelvic pain syndrome.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1690"></a>24. A substantial proportion of the C-fiber afferent population is silent; pathologic conditions may recruit mechanosensitive C-fibers to form a new functional afferent pathway.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1695"></a>25. Activation of the central serotonergic system can suppress voiding by inhibiting the parasympathetic excitatory input to the urinary bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1700"></a>26. The bladder sympathetic reflex promotes closure of the urethral outlet and inhibits neurally mediated contractions of the bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1705"></a>27. While the bladder fills, the external sphincter activity increases (guarding reflex)—i.e., pudendal motor neurons are activated by bladder afferent input.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1710"></a>28. The dorsal pontine tegmentum is the control center for micturition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1715"></a>29. Stimulation of β-2 and β-3 receptors relaxes the detrusor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1720"></a>30. Sex steroids modulate receptors and influence growth of bladder tissues.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1725"></a>31. After SCI, a C-fiber–mediated spinal reflex develops and may play a role in the development of detrusor overactivity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1730"></a>32. Alterations of neural networks occur in the central nervous system following obstruction of the lower urinary tract.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1735"></a>33. Obstruction-induced detrusor overactivity may be due to denervation supersensitivity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1740"></a>34. With aging detrusor contractility, bladder sensation and urethral pressure decline.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o1745"></a>35. Sacral neuromodulation is thought to have its beneficial effect by somatic inhibition of sensory processing in the spinal cord.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o1750"></a>36. The hammock hypothesis of urinary continence suggests that the urethra has a fixed dorsal surface due to its attachments to the pubis, pelvic muscles, and fascia, which allow ventral wall compression of the urethra against the fixed dorsal wall.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
