<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0083"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">83</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000835">Surgery of the Scrotum and Seminal Vesicles</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Dorota J. Hawksworth, Mohit Khera, and Amin S. Herati</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">chronic pain; hydrocele; microscopic varicocelectomy; scrotum; seminal vesicle cyst; seminal vesicles/surgery; seminal vesicles; surgical procedures; vasectomy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch083_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0175">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1095"></a>1. Because scrotal cases are considered clean rather than sterile, prophylactic antibiotics are recommended preoperatively. Hair removal should occur immediately before the procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1100"></a>2. Fournier gangrene is a necrotizing fasciitis that involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue and is confined by the dartos fascia on the penis, Colles fascia in the perineum, and Scarpa fascia in the abdomen. Proper resuscitation requires broad-spectrum antibiotics, including a third-generation cephalosporin, an aminoglycoside, and metronidazole. These patients require fluid resuscitation and, when hemodynamically stable, debridement. Daily debridement in the operating room until all nonviable tissue is removed should be subsequently performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1105"></a>3. Ninety-seven percent of patients undergoing open-ended vasectomy develop sperm granulomas.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1110"></a>4. Division of the vas deferens during vasectomy should occur at least 3 cm from the epididymitis. There is no vasectomy technique that is 100% effective; more than 80% of the patients achieve azoospermia at 3 months following vasectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1115"></a>5. When the testis is removed for orchialgia, pain relief is better achieved if the orchiectomy is performed through an inguinal incision rather than a transscrotal incision.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1120"></a>6. There is no level 1 evidence that orchiectomy is effective for the treatment of chronic orchialgia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1125"></a>7. Any surgical manipulation of the epididymis results in azoospermia on that side.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1130"></a>8. Leaving a scrotal drain after scrotal procedures does not lessen the complication rate or the development of postoperative hematomas.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1135"></a>9. When repairing large hydroceles, the epididymis and spermatic vessels may be splayed by the hydrocele, and care must be taken to identify them to avoid injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1140"></a>10. Microsurgical denervation of the spermatic cord has been used for the treatment of orchialgia with reported success rates as high as two-thirds achieving pain relief. It should only be considered if a cord block is successful.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1145"></a>11. Seminal vesicle cysts are associated with ipsilateral renal agenesis or dysplasia in two-thirds of patients and have been associated with polycystic kidney disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1150"></a>12. <span class="italic">Mycobacterium tuberculosis</span> and <span class="italic">Schistosoma haematobium</span> may infect the seminal vesicles.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1155"></a>13. Vasectomy has not been established to be associated with prostate cancer, dementia, cardiovascular disease, or atherosclerosis, although it has been associated with a 10% incidence of chronic scrotal pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1160"></a>14. Vasectomy disrupts the blood-testis barrier, resulting in detectable levels of serum antisperm antibodies in 60% to 80% of men.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1165"></a>15. The Jaboulay operation, in which the sac edges are sewn together behind the cord, reduces the chance of recurrence caused by reapposition of the edges of the hydrocele sac.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1170"></a>16. Of men with bilateral absence of the vas deferens or seminal vesicles, 70% to 80% are carriers of the genetic mutation associated with cystic fibrosis. Conversely, 80% to 95% of men with cystic fibrosis have bilateral absence of the vas deferens or seminal vesicles.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1175"></a>17. Very few primary tumors of the seminal vesicles have been reported. It is more common for carcinoma of the bladder, prostate, or rectum or lymphoma to secondarily involve the seminal vesicles.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_321"></span><span id="pagebreak_322"></span><span id="pagebreak_323"></span>
</body>
</html>
