<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0006"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">6</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000069">Assessment of Urologic and Surgical Outcomes</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">David F. Penson, and Mark D. Tyson</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">clinical epidemiology; health-related quality of life; outcomes research; patient-reported outcomes; study design</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch006_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0360"></a>1. The effectiveness of health services delivery and treatment can be measured across three distinct dimensions: structure, process, and outcomes. Structure and process measures are easier to assess but outcomes tend to be most meaningful to clinicians and patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0365"></a>2. Mortality is the “hardest” endpoint one can assess in urology. That being said, it can be subject to bias. Specifically, studies using overall mortality can still be subject to lead- and length-time bias, and studies using disease-specific mortality may be subject to attribution bias.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0370"></a>3. While there are many proxy endpoints in urology, few meet all four requirements for being a valid surrogate endpoint. Despite this, urologists routinely use proxy endpoints in research and clinical practice.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0375"></a>4. There are a number of published and widely accepted criteria for defining disease progression and surgical complications in urology. While these urologists should use these reporting systems whenever possible, they should also remember that the use of these systems does not completely eliminate the potential for bias in research due to study design and other factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0380"></a>5. Frailty, functional status, and comorbidity are important potential confounders that should be considered in urologic research. There are numerous standardized tools available to capture these variables.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0385"></a>6. There are numerous patient-reported outcome tools available to assess symptoms and quality of life in patients with urologic diseases. Physicians and researchers should always use validated and reliable patient-centered tools when possible.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_18"></span>
</body>
</html>
