<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0127"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">127</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001270">Additional Therapies for Storage and Emptying Failure</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Timothy B. Boone, Julie N. Stewart, and Laura M. Martinez</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">augmentation cystoplasty; catheterization; urethral injection therapy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch127_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0075">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0395"></a>1. The goals of therapy for storage failure are low-pressure storage, improved bladder capacity, decreased incontinence due to detrusor overactivity, and preservation of renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0400"></a>2. Augmentation cystoplasty is an option after failed conservative management such as pharmacologic therapy, intravesical botulinum toxin injection, or CIC.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0405"></a>3. Use of large bowel versus small bowel may lead to more significant metabolic disturbance, increased mucus production, and theoretically heightened risk of malignancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0410"></a>4. Goal of urethral injection therapy is to restore urethral mucosal coaptation and its hermetic seal effect, especially during periods of increased abdominal pressure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0415"></a>5. Injectable agents are an option for patients who are not candidates for more invasive procedures. Efficacy and durability are generally inferior to surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0420"></a>6. Functional urethral closure with pubovaginal sling provides pop-off valve for leakage at higher pressures and allows access for transurethral instrumentation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0425"></a>7. Bladder neck closure with simultaneous LUT reconstruction may be successful in refractory patients with destroyed bladder outlet.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0430"></a>8. Indications for catheterizable channel include difficulty catheterizing per urethra, urethral scarring, and urethral incompetence requiring outlet closure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0435"></a>9. Complications of continent catheterizable channels include long-term issues with catheterization, incontinence, and stomal stenosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0440"></a>10. Asymptomatic bacteriuria is common in catheterized patients and does not require treatment unless the patient becomes symptomatic.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0445"></a>11. Chronic catheterization (CIC or indwelling) may lead to poor bladder compliance and upper tract deterioration; thus periodic surveillance is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0450"></a>12. Credé and Valsalva maneuvers may elevate intravesical pressure enough to cause upper tract deterioration, especially in a setting of poor detrusor compliance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0455"></a>13. Reflex voiding depends on the ability to stimulate detrusor contractions and may be most suitable for patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) or neurogenic detrusor overactivity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0460"></a>14. Condom catheter use is associated with lower rate of bacteriuria, symptomatic UTIs, and death than indwelling Foley; also more comfortable and less restrictive.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0465"></a>15. Complications of condom catheter include allergic reactions, penile edema; higher risk for pressure sores in patients with impaired sensation or cognition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0470"></a>16. Consumers spend billions of dollars on absorbent products; selection is often based on trial and error, cost, convenience, and manufacturers’ claims.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0475"></a>17. IAD is inflammation of skin with redness, edema, and/or bullae with clear exudate; it is often found in skin folds and may promote candidiasis or bacterial skin infections.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_490"></span><span id="pagebreak_491"></span>
</body>
</html>
