<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0093"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">93</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000938">Strategies for Nonmedical Management of Upper Urinary Tract Calculi</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">David A. Leavitt, Jean J.M.C.H. de la Rosette, and David M. Hoenig</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">calculi; kidney stones; nephrolithiasis; surgery; surgical management; surgical treatment; ureteral stones</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch093_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0120">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0710"></a>1. Determinants of poor stone clearance rates after SWL include large renal calculi, lower pole or obstructed portions of the collecting system, very hard stones, and obesity.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0715"></a>2. Most calyceal stones in the absence of intervention are likely to increase in size and cause pain or infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0720"></a>3. If left untreated, staghorn calculi are likely to be associated with a progressive decrease in renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0725"></a>4. Patients with cystinuria are more likely to have decreased renal function than other stone formers.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0730"></a>5. There is a linear correlation between Hounsfield units (density) and success of SWL.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0735"></a>6. Complete stone clearance from lower pole calyces is less likely than from other calyces for reasons that are not totally clear.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0740"></a>7. Spontaneous passage of a distal ureteral stone is more likely than that of a proximal ureteral stone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0745"></a>8. For patients with proximal ureteral stones, there is no difference between treating the stone in situ or pushing it back into the renal pelvis when utilizing SWL.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0750"></a>9. In humans, there is no clear time threshold for irreversible damage in complete ureteral obstruction. It is clear, however, that patients with compromised vasculature, decreased renal reserve, poor nutrition, and other comorbid diseases such as diabetes tolerate obstruction less well than do patients with normal kidneys. Most agree that a significantly obstructing stone should not be allowed to persist beyond 2 to 4 weeks.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0755"></a>10. Untreated staghorn calculi are associated with recurrent urinary tract infections, urosepsis, renal function deterioration, and increased mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0760"></a>11. Renal stones less than 1 cm are best treated with SWL or ureterorenoscopic extraction; stones between 1 and 2 cm that are not in the lower pole are best treated with SWL or PNL; stones greater than 2 cm are best treated with PNL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0765"></a>12. Matrix renal stones are best removed with PNL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0770"></a>13. Alpha blockers increase the rate of spontaneous passage of ureteral stones. Tamsulosin, a selective α-adrenergic blocker, is the preferred agent for medical expulsive therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0775"></a>14. Bacteria may reside deep in the stone and may be impossible to eradicate without complete stone removal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0780"></a>15. Medications responsible for producing stones include ephedrine, indinavir, triamterene, magnesium trisilicate, ciprofloxacin, and sulfa drugs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0785"></a>16. The best predictor of post-PNL urosepsis is stone culture or renal pelvic urine culture results.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0790"></a>17. Stone burden (size and number) is perhaps the single most important factor in deciding the appropriate treatment modality for a patient with kidney calculi.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0795"></a>18. Cystine and brushite are the stones most resistant to SWL, followed by calcium oxalate monohydrate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0800"></a>19. The percutaneous approach for the management of patients with calyceal diverticular stones provides the patient with the best chance of becoming stone and symptom free.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0805"></a>20. When anticoagulation cannot be temporarily discontinued, the use of ureteroscopy in combination with holmium laser lithotripsy is preferred.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0810"></a>21. The majority of ureteral stones less than 5 mm will pass spontaneously.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0815"></a>22. Pregnant women who require admission and require treatment for renal colic have a greater risk of preterm delivery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0820"></a>23. Pregnancy induces a state of absorptive hypercalciuria and mild hyperuricosuria that is offset by increased excretion of urinary inhibitors such as citrate and magnesium, as well as increased urinary output.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0825"></a>24. SWL is now known to induce acute structural changes in the treated kidney in most, if not all, patients. The insult is primarily a vascular injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0830"></a>25. Uncorrected coagulopathy and an active, untreated urinary tract infection are two absolute contraindications to PNL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0835"></a>26. Physiologic solutions should be used for irrigation during PNL to minimize the risk of dilutional hyponatremia in the event of large-volume extravasation.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_359"></span><span id="pagebreak_360"></span>
</body>
</html>
