<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/img_lightbox_handler/img_lightbox_data.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/img_lightbox_handler/img_lightbox_parent.js"></script>

</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0016"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">16</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000161">Evaluation and Management of Hematuria</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Stephen A. Boorjian, Jay D. Raman, and Daniel A. Barocas</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">hematuria; hemorrhagic cystitis; microhematuria; nephropathy; urinalysis</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch016_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0075">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0395"></a>1. Microscopic hematuria (MH) is defined by the AUA guidelines as three or more RBCs/HPF, identified on one or more occasions on urine microscopy. Urine dipstick testing is insufficient for the diagnosis of MH.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0400"></a>2. MH is quite common, with a prevalence of approximately 6.5% of adults, varying according to the characteristics of the population.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0405"></a>3. Malignancy has been detected in approximately 3.5% of patients evaluated for asymptomatic MH. The risk of malignancy diagnosis is greater in patients with higher degrees of hematuria, male gender, and/or risk factors for malignancy, and lower in absence of these risk factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0410"></a>4. Evaluation of adults with microscopic hematuria includes a history and physical examination, renal function testing, and upper tract imaging for all patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0415"></a>5. White light cystoscopy is recommended in the evaluation of asymptomatic MH for patients 35 years of age or older and/or those with risk factors for malignancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0420"></a>6. CT urogram is the preferred imaging modality for the evaluation of hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0425"></a>7. Urine cytologic examination and biomarkers are not indicated in the initial evaluation of asymptomatic MH.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0430"></a>8. Patients with a negative complete evaluation can be released from care if subsequent urinalyses confirm resolution of MH. Reevaluation should be considered in patients with persistent/recurrent MH and those with an incomplete initial evaluation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0435"></a>9. Oxazaphosphorine chemotherapeutic agents have been linked to the development of hemorrhagic cystitis through exposure of the metabolite acrolein to the urothelium.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0440"></a>10. Alum may be used as a first-line intravesical therapy for hemorrhagic cystitis in patients without renal dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0445"></a>11. Formalin is a highly effective form of intravesical therapy for hemorrhagic cystitis. A cystogram should be obtained before therapy to ensure no vesicoureteral reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0450"></a>12. HBOT has been associated with response rates of 80% to 100% for patients with hemorrhagic cystitis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0455"></a>13. BPH represents the most common cause of GH in men older than 60 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0460"></a>14. 5α-Reductase inhibitors may be used for BPH-related GH, with potential improvement having been noted within weeks after instituting therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0465"></a>15. Androgen deprivation may be effective for patients with locally advanced prostate cancer with GH.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0470"></a>16. Angioembolization and/or urinary diversion represent salvage options for management for patients with refractory hematuria, pending clinical status.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0475"></a>17. Urethral bleeding should be suspected with blood at the meatus and/or initial hematuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0480"></a>18. A concern for traumatic urethral injury should prompt retrograde urethrogram.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0485"></a>19. Urinary findings suggestive of a glomerular or tubulointerstitial medical renal disease include the presence of RBC casts in the urinary sediment, dysmorphic RBCs, and proteinuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0490"></a>20. In patients with GH after a recent renal procedure, expeditious angiography should be considered to allow for the diagnosis and management of renal AVM.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="f0010"></span><span id="f0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_47"></span><span id="pagebreak_48"></span><span id="pagebreak_49"></span>
</body>
</html>
