<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0061"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">61</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000616">Basic Principles of Immunology and Immunotherapy in Urologic Oncology</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Charles G. Drake</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">BCG; CD4; CD8; CTLA-4; immunotherapy; lymphocyte; neutrophil; NK cell; PD-1; PD-L1; T cell; Treg</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch061_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0530"></a>1. An immune response begins with an innate response, which is rapid but relatively nonspecific. It then progresses to include the adaptive immune system, which is characterized by both specificity and memory.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0535"></a>2. For an antitumor immune response, a Th1 response dominated by interferon γ, IL-2, and TNF α is desired.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0540"></a>3. CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) inhibit an adaptive immune response.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0545"></a>4. The immune editing hypothesis explains how early tumors can be recognized and eliminated by the immune system, whereas clinically evident tumors must escape immune recognition to evolve.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0550"></a>5. Bladder cancer is promoted by chronic inflammation initiated by infection or other stimuli.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0555"></a>6. In kidney cancer, there is good evidence for an ongoing adaptive, CD8 T-cell–mediated response, but paradoxically, an increased CD8 density is associated with a worse prognosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0560"></a>7. Prostate cancer may also be driven by chronic inflammation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0565"></a>8. Expression of immune checkpoint molecules on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) attenuates the adaptive immune response to GU tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0570"></a>9. BCG therapy for bladder cancer stimulates both the innate and adaptive immune systems and is a prototype for successful cancer immunotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0575"></a>10. Cancer vaccines have been evaluated in both kidney and prostate cancer. A single vaccine (Sipuleucel-T) is FDA-approved for metastatic prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0580"></a>11. Several other vaccine approaches in phase III trials in kidney and prostate cancer have failed.</li>
<!--<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0585"/>12. BCG therapy for bladder cancer stimulates both the innate and adaptive immune systems and is a prototype for successful cancer immunotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0590"/>13. Cancer vaccines have been evaluated in both kidney and prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0595"/>14. A single vaccine (Sipuleucel-T) is FDA-approved for metastatic prostate cancer.</li>-->
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0600"></a>12. Cancer vaccines are generally well tolerated but result in few objective clinical responses.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0605"></a>13. Blocking the PD-1/PD-L1 interaction is effective in second-line bladder cancer and has activity in first-line patients who are cisplatin-ineligible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0610"></a>14. PD-L1 expression may distinguish bladder cancer patients more likely to respond to anti-PD-1/anti-PD-L1 therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0615"></a>15. Anti-PD-1 is effective in second-line kidney cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0620"></a>16. Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 has not shown robust monotherapy activity in metastatic prostate cancer.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_225"></span><span id="pagebreak_226"></span>
</body>
</html>
