<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>

<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0030"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">30</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000306">Bladder Anomalies in Children<br />
</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Christopher C. Roth</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Key words</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder agenesis; bladder diverticula; bladder duplication; bladder; cystitis cystica; fibroepithelial polyphemorrhagic cystitis; megacystis; nephrogenic adenoma; urachus</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch030_assessments.xhtml" height="730"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0090">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0500"></a>1. Persistent megacystis in the background of oligohydramnios is concerning for LUTO; megacystis that resolves prior to delivery may not have any postnatal sequelae.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0505"></a>2. MMIH syndrome may present with megacystis noted only prenatally.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0510"></a>3. Nondilated anomalies are the most severe forms of congenital urologic malformations, such as bladder exstrophy. Normal amniotic fluid levels are usually found.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0515"></a>4. Bladder agenesis is compatible with life only if the ureters drain ectopically.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0520"></a>5. Children with connective tissue disorders can have multiple bladder diverticula that may have to be treated owing to stasis-related infections or stones.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0525"></a>6. Urachal anomalies are usually detected postnatally because of umbilical drainage.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0530"></a>7. Infected urachal remnants are treated with antibiotics, followed by surgical excision.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0535"></a>8. Urachal remnants can be confused for a persistent omphalomesenteric duct on preoperative workup.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0540"></a>9. Asymptomatic incidentally found urachal remnant excision should be discussed with family because of the potential for malignant transformation in adulthood.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0545"></a>10. Acquired bladder diverticula can become large enough to cause urinary obstruction or create stasis leading to recurrent urinary tract infections.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0550"></a>11. After resection of nephrogenic adenomas, routine cystoscopy is necessary because of an 80% recurrence rate in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0555"></a>12. Cystitis cystica can mimic a bladder tumor but is benign and is best treated with long-term antibiotic prophylaxis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0560"></a>13. Eosinophilic cystitis has no “typical” appearance and requires biopsy for diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0565"></a>14. Cyclophosphamide therapy can lead to hemorrhagic cystitis. For prevention, mesna is given simultaneously, and oral sodium pentosan polysulfate shows promise.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_94"></span><span id="pagebreak_95"></span>
</body>
</html>
