<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0138"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">138</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001385">Surgical Management of Bladder Cancer</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle0010">Transurethral, Open, and Robotic</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Neema Navai, and Colin P.N. Dinney</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">Bladder cancer; bladder tumor; laparoscopic surgery; minimally invasive; partial cystectomy; robotic surgery; surgery; transurethral resection</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_534"></span>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch138_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0430"></a>1. Before endoscopic treatment of bladder cancer, the patient should have upper-tract imaging.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0435"></a>2. Initial transurethral resection of a bladder tumor should routinely be performed to include muscle. There should be a 2-cm visibly negative margin on the surface.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0440"></a>3. Immediately following transurethral resection of bladder tumors, intravesical installation of epirubicin or mitomycin C modestly reduces recurrences but has little effect on progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0445"></a>4. Bacille Calmette-Guérin should never be instilled immediately following bladder tumor resection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0450"></a>5. Before a cystectomy, the site of the abdominal stoma should be marked by an enterostomal therapist with the patient awake so that the proper location may be ascertained.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0455"></a>6. If prostate- or prostate capsule–sparing techniques are to be used in orthotopic bladder construction, preoperative evaluation to rule out occult cancer—either transitional cell or prostate adenocarcinoma—should be performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0460"></a>7. A radical cystectomy in the female includes complete removal of the urethra including the meatus.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0465"></a>8. Patients amenable to partial cystectomy should have a solitary lesion without associated CIS in which a 2-cm margin may be obtained, which is far enough away from the ureteral orifices and bladder neck that closure can be accomplished without compromising these structures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0470"></a>9. Sixty-four percent of patients undergoing radical cystectomy have at least one perioperative complication in the first 3 months postoperative; 13% experience high-grade complications. The majority of complications are gastrointestinal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0475"></a>10. The boundaries of a standard lymph node dissection are the genitofemoral nerve laterally, internal iliac artery medially, Cooper ligament caudally, and crossing of the ureter at the common iliac artery cranially.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0480"></a>11. The 90-day mortality rate for radical cystectomy is approximately 3%.<a id="pg535"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="535" id="pagebreak_535"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0485"></a>12. Routine administration of antibiotic prophylaxis in patients undergoing a transurethral resection of a bladder tumor is recommended and should be given 30–60 minutes before the procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0490"></a>13. Transurethral resection of tumors on the lateral wall may initiate the obturator reflex and result in bladder perforation. This may be minimized by minimally distending the bladder, using bipolar cautery, and using general anesthesia with muscle paralysis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0495"></a>14. Routine stenting of a resected ureteral orifice with cutting current is not necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0500"></a>15. In preparation for a cystectomy and urinary diversion, mechanical and antibiotic bowel prep is controversial. The data to justify omitting this preparation come, for the most part, from the general surgical literature in which the bowel is not opened in the peritoneal cavity as it is in urology, particularly in continent diversions. Administration of intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis 30–60 minutes before the incision is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0505"></a>16. In women, the vagina should be prepped into the surgical field.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0510"></a>17. Care should be taken when using sealing instruments near the rectum because that organ may be injured by radiating heat.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0515"></a>18. Early enteral feeding, neostigmine, and alvimopan have all demonstrated efficacy in improving return of bowel function following abdominal surgery.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
