<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0148"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">148</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001488">Epidemiology, Etiology, and Prevention of Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Andrew J. Stephenson, Robert Abouassaly, and Eric A. Klein</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">germline genetics; molecular taxonomy; prostate cancer epidemiology; prostate cancer etiology; prostate cancer prevention</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>

<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch148_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>

</div>

<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0430"></a>1. In the United States, prostate cancer is the most common visceral malignancy in men and the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0435"></a>2. Prostate cancer mortality has declined since 1991 and for Caucasians is now lower than before PSA testing was introduced.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0440"></a>3. Worldwide, prostate cancer incidence and mortality rates vary significantly between countries and regions but are highest in African American and Jamaican men.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0445"></a>4. PSA has induced a significant downward migration in age and both clinical and pathological stage at diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0450"></a>5. PSA screening reduces prostate cancer mortality; however, the absolute effect is small relative to the number needed to screen and treat to cure a single individual.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0455"></a>6. Both genetics and environment are important in the origin and evolution of prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0460"></a>7. Genome-Wide Association Studies have identified multiple chromosomal loci and variant alleles in germline DNA that confer risk of getting prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0465"></a>8. Because the predictive value of single loci is small, models with multiple risk loci or less common alleles with greater risk are needed for individual risk prediction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0470"></a>9. HOXB13 and BRCA are two genes that substantially increase individual risk. BRCA-related tumors present with more aggressive clinical features.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0475"></a>10. Chronic inflammation leading to cellular hyperproliferation to replace damaged tissue appears to contribute to the development of prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0480"></a>11. Both genetic and histologic observations suggest that compromised cellular defenses against inflammatory oxidants are important in prostate cancer initiation and promotion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0485"></a>12. Inflammation may be triggered by diet, infection, estrogens, or other environmental agents.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0490"></a>13. Histologic evidence of inflammation, as manifested by proliferative inflammatory atrophy (PIA), is common in prostate cancer and may represent a key pathobiologic process in its development.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0495"></a>14. Androgen exposure of the prostate plays an important but incompletely defined role in prostate carcinogenesis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0500"></a>15. Long-term absence of androgen exposure protects against cancer, but a dose-response relationship between androgen levels and prostate cancer risk has not been established.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0505"></a>16. Polymorphisms in genes encoding for the androgen receptor and various enzymes related to androgen metabolism may be important determinants of prostate cancer risk.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0510"></a>17. Vitamin D and its interaction with its receptor modulate risk and disease aggressiveness.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0515"></a>18. Smoking increases the risk of disease recurrence and death due to prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0520"></a>19. Obesity is associated with lower PSA, increases risk for getting high-grade disease, and is associated with higher treatment failure rates and mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0525"></a>20. The primary androgen of the prostate is dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Exposure to DHT is a prerequisite for developing prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0530"></a>21. Stem cells are precursors with multilineage differentiation potential that populate epithelium of prostatic acini and are the origin of clonal epithelial expansion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0535"></a>22. Primary prostate cancer has a distinct molecular taxonomy characterized by seven distinct subtypes, including four defined by gene fusions and three by mutations.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0540"></a>23. Variations in gene methylation profiles further distinguish the molecular subtypes of prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0545"></a>24. The androgen receptor plays a central role in prostate cancer development and progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0550"></a>25. There are distinct biological differences in the genomics of prostate cancers of African American and European American men.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0555"></a>26. The goal of primary chemoprevention is to decrease the incidence of a given cancer, simultaneously reducing both treatment-related side effects and mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0560"></a>27. Effective chemoprevention requires the use of nontoxic agents that inhibit specific molecular steps in the carcinogenic pathway.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0565"></a>28. Prostate cancer is an attractive target for primary prevention because of its incidence, prevalence, treatment-related morbidity, and mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0570"></a>29. The Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial demonstrated that finasteride reduces the period prevalence of prostate cancer by 25% with no effect on overall mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0575"></a>30. SELECT demonstrated that neither vitamin E nor selenium prevents prostate cancer, and that use of vitamin E was associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_572"></span><span id="pagebreak_573"></span>
</body>
</html>
