<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0118"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">118</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900118X">The Underactive Detrusor</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Christopher R. Chapple, and Nadir I. Osman</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder outlet resistance; detrusor underactivity; underactive detrusor</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch118_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0360"></a>1. Detrusor underactivity (DUA) is a contraction of reduced strength and/or duration, resulting in prolonged bladder emptying and/or failure to achieve complete bladder emptying within a normal time span.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0365"></a>2. DUA often coexists with other lower urinary tract dysfunctions in the elderly.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0370"></a>3. Normal aging results in a reduction in autonomic innervation and a decline in sensory function in the lower urinary tract.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0375"></a>4. Diabetes mellitus impairs detrusor function through both myogenic and autonomic dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0380"></a>5. Lumbosacral spinal cord trauma or disk disease and pelvic surgery can lead to injury of the pelvic plexus.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0385"></a>6. Afferent nerves play a central role in the initiation and maintenance of a detrusor contraction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0390"></a>7. Treatment strategies to address DUA include timed voiding, double voiding, pelvic floor physiotherapy, and intermittent self-catheterization.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0395"></a>8. Intravesical electrotherapy activates mechanosensitive bladder afferents (myelinated Aδ fibers) and restores bladder sensation. It is postulated that repeat activation of this pathway upregulates its performance during volitional voiding.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_452"></span>
</body>
</html>
