<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0131"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">131</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001312">Surgical Procedures for Sphincteric Incontinence in the Male</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Hunter Wessells, and Alex J. Vanni</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">artificial sphincter; male sling; male stress incontinence; post prostatectomy; surgery urethra</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch131_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe> 
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. A careful history and voiding diary characterize the type and severity of urinary incontinence in most men.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. Uroflometry and post void residual urine volume measurement should be assessed at minimum.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. Suspected outlet obstruction, significant bladder overactivity, or impaired bladder contractility should prompt urodynamic studies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. Patients with suspected urethral, vesicourethral, or bladder neck pathology should undergo cystoscopy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. Urinalysis (and culture, if indicated) is required prior to surgical treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Surgical intervention is indicated for SUI due to ISD that fails to improve with conservative management.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. Implant selection depends on the severity of UI, prior surgical procedures, bladder function, cystoscopic findings, manual dexterity and cognitive function, long-term risk of complications and reoperation, and patient preference.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. Slings should only be used very selectively in cases of radiation and severe gravitational urinary incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. AUS should not be used in cases of poor manual dexterity, cognitive disability, poor urethral tissue integrity, or severely reduced bladder compliance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. Standard implantation of the bulbar AUS places the cuff around the corpus spongiosum proximal to the convergence of the corporal bodies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. Pressure regulating balloon of 61 to 70 cm H<sub>2</sub>O is advised for bulbar urethral cuffs; placement may be via abdominal, scrotal, or perineal approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Postoperative deactivation of the cuff for 4–6 weeks is essential for proper healing without erosion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. Prolonged urinary retention requires suprapubic cystostomy drainage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0600"></a>14. Revision surgery for nonmechanical causes may require transcorporal cuff placement or other modifications such as using 3.5-cm or tandem cuff.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0605"></a>15. Male bulbar urethral slings are indicated in men with mild to moderate sphincteric UI, intact bladder contractility, and well-vascularized nonradiated urethral anatomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0610"></a>16. Transobturator slings reposition and elongate the membranous urethra and depend on the intact external sphincter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0615"></a>17. Quadratic fixation provides an alternative to the two arm devices with limited data on efficacy and durability.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0620"></a>18. Device infection typically requires total explantation, but salvage procedures in select patients with device removal, antibiotic regimen washout, and reimplantation are feasible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0625"></a>19. Device erosion requires total explantation and catheter drainage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0630"></a>20. Troubleshooting of recurrent UI post AUS requires a systematic and exhaustive evaluation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0635"></a>21. Cuff atrophy requires downsizing, repositioning, tandem cuff, or transcorporal surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0640"></a>22. Artificial urinary sphincter continues to provide a reliable solution to male UI of all degrees of severity across the range of first-time implantation to complex reoperative and high-risk patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0645"></a>23. Transobturator slings such as Advance and newer devices provide long-term durable outcomes for mild to moderate male UI after radical prostatectomy.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_508"></span><span id="pagebreak_509"></span>
</body>
</html>
