<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0158"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">158</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001580">Focal Therapy for Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Kae Jack Tay, and Thomas J. Polascik</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">focal therapy; mpMRI; prostate cancer; prostatectomy; radiation; saturation biopsy; targeted biopsy; targeted therapy</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_604"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch158_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0360"></a>1. Gleason patterns 4 and 5 demonstrate many of the hallmarks of malignancy compared to Gleason pattern 3 and represent priority targets for elimination. The feasibility of focal therapy for a multifocal disease such as prostate cancer is based on the presumption that an index lesion is primarily responsible for disease progression and metastases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0365"></a>2. The index lesion as the focus of disease progression and/or metastases is supported by: (1) most of the time, the grade/stage of the cancer is determined by the index lesion, (2) most of the tumor volume is often contributed by the index lesion, (3) majority of satellite tumors are small (&lt;0.5 mL) and low grade, and (4) genetic studies suggest a monoclonal origin of metastatic or lethal prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0370"></a>3. A successful focal therapy strategy depends on a multidisciplinary team to accurately determine the disease extent/location through advanced imaging and biopsy, ascertain that the patient will be compliant to follow-up, completely ablate the index lesion(s), and monitor the patient post-treatment with a view to future targeted treatment of either persistent or de novo disease, or conversion to whole-gland treatment as necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0375"></a>4. The use of TRUS-guided biopsy to guide focal therapy is fraught with the following difficulties: it overdiagnoses clinically insignificant cancer; it misses clinically significant cancers in 30% of cases—usually in the anterior or apical regions; it may underrepresent true cancer burden; and repeat biopsies do not give consistent results.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0380"></a>5. mpMRI has become a key enabler for prostate focal therapy due to its ability to preferentially detect high-grade lesions, improve the detection of anterior zone cancers, improve the detection of extra-prostatic extension, and accurately identify the index lesions for targeted biopsy. However, systematic biopsy remains necessary to evaluate the prostate gland prior to focal therapy due to the 10% to 15% miss rate with mpMRI. Other imaging modalities such as multiparametric ultrasound or PSMA-PET CT/MRI have potential use in this area but remain to be further evaluated.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0385"></a>6. Focal therapy can be applied in various patterns (hemi-ablation, quadrant-ablation, lesion-ablation) using different technologies (cryotherapy, HIFU, IRE, laser, etc.). The chosen approach depends on the location of the tumor, the desired ablative technology that is available, and other anatomical considerations that may be peculiar to the patient.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0390"></a>7. Cryotherapy is a thermal ablative modality achieving cell kill through extraction of heat producing lethal cold temperatures. Cryosurgery kills target tissues via physical and physiological changes including mechanical forces resulting in membrane disruption created by intra- and extracellular ice formation, recrystallization, vascular stasis/ischemia, apoptosis, and immune effects.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0395"></a>8. Recent developments have made cryotherapy increasingly suited for focal therapy. First, new third-generation cryoprobes are as fine as 17-gauge, allowing them to be maneuvered to the appropriate position within the prostate. Second, variable ice length adjustment allows the ice ball to be contoured exactly to the lesion that is to be ablated. Third, the ice edge can be clearly seen using transrectal ultrasound allowing for the extent of ablation and the ablation margin to be monitored and adjusted in real time. Fourth, the use of a urethral warmer has greatly reduced the risk of urethral complications arising from cold injury to the urethral mucosa.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0400"></a>9. Cell destruction is determined by the cooling rate, warming rate, and the nadir temperature attained. Slow thawing is generally more effective in tissue destruction compared to rapid thawing. A nadir temperature of <span>−</span>40°C and a double freeze/thaw cycle are recommended for adequate cell death in the target zone.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0405"></a>10. High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a process where multiple ultrasound beams are focused onto a preset point generating a temperature of at least 55°C to produce coagulative necrosis within the desired target. The transducer is typically built into the transrectal ultrasound probe which is also used for treatment planning and monitoring making it well suited for treatment of posterior zone lesions. However, the anterior gland may be more difficult to treat due to energy dissipation over the intervening prostate tissue and displacement of anterior zone targets with gradual edema of the prostate tissue as treatment progresses.<a id="pg605"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="605" id="pagebreak_605"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0410"></a>11. In-bore MRI guided HIFU (MRgFUS) and MRI-guided transurethral ultrasound ablation of the prostate (TULSA) are new developments being actively studied.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0415"></a>12. Focal laser ablation (FLA) refers to the creation of coagulative necrosis using an interstitially placed laser fiber. The ablation zone is guided by the laser fiber, and tissue destruction occurs only within a fixed distance from the fiber tip, offering the possibility of true focal ablation where accurate and predictable tissue destruction zones can theoretically be safe within close proximity to vital structures. The disadvantages are that longer procedure times or extra laser fibers may be necessary for ablation of larger lesions, and early studies show that additional care may be needed to treat the lesion with an adequate margin.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0420"></a>13. Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a non-thermal ablative technique that uses short pulses of direct current electricity to produce irreversible pores in the cell membrane, leading to cell death, and preferentially damages cells while preserving connective tissue architecture that could theoretically serve as a scaffolding for new cells to grow.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0425"></a>14. Vascular-targeted photodynamic therapy (VTP) employs the use of a low-power near-infrared laser light of specific wavelength producing reactive oxygen species in tissues that have been photosensitized with an intravascular agent preferentially taken up by tumor cells causing irreversible damage to cell membranes and small arterioles leading to tumor necrosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0430"></a>15. A randomized trial (Azzouzi et al.) of 415 men with low-risk prostate cancer compared focal VTP or active surveillance demonstrating that FT significantly improved negative biopsy at 2 years and decreased disease progression and those requiring definitive disease intervention. Of the 216 men assigned to VTP, 196 received the treatment and 195 completed 24 months of follow-up. In the AS arm, 174 men completed 24 months of follow-up. Overall, cancer progression rate (volume, grade, or PSA progression) in the AS arm was 58% compared to 28% in the VTP arm. This is the first randomized trial with level 1 evidence comparing focal therapy to an accepted management strategy demonstrating a meaningful clinical benefit.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0435"></a>16. Brachytherapy, stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), toxins, and various nanoparticles are currently being investigated for use in prostate focal therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0440"></a>17. After prostate focal therapy, PSA, which is a traditional marker of therapeutic success, is less relevant due to its levels being affected by the amount of residual prostate epithelia that may continue to grow. MRI and prostate biopsies are recommended in order to assess the treated (infield) area as well as the untreated (outfield) area.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0445"></a>18. Future research endeavors should focus on better patient selection using clinical, imaging, and/or genetic biomarkers, cost-effectiveness studies, and the investigation of adjuvant agents to improve the efficacy of focal therapy in prostate cancer.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
