<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0092"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">92</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000926">Evaluation and Medical Management of Urinary Lithiasis</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Nicole L. Miller, and Michael S. Borofsky</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">evaluation; kidney stone; metabolic; nephrolithiasis; urolithiasis</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_353"></span><span id="pagebreak_354"></span><span id="pagebreak_355"></span><span id="pagebreak_356"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch092_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0175">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1095"></a>1. First-time stone formers are at a 50% risk for recurrence. Males have both a higher incidence of calculi and a higher recurrence rate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1100"></a>2. Infectious calculi may contain large quantities of endotoxin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1105"></a>3. A complete urine collection is confirmed by the 24-hour excretion of creatinine. On average 1 mg/kg per hour is excreted.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1110"></a>4. As the phosphate content of the stone increases from calcium oxalate to calcium oxalate-calcium apatite to calcium apatite, the incidence of renal tubular acidosis increases from 5% to 39% and the incidence of primary hyperparathyroidism increases from 2% to 10%. Thus higher phosphate content in stones correlates with an increased incidence of renal tubular acidosis and primary hyperparathyroidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1115"></a>5. Obesity increases the risk of nephrolithiasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1120"></a>6. Hypercalciuria not associated with hypercalcemia may be subdivided into (1) excess gastrointestinal absorption, (2) renal tubular leak, or (3) normocalcemic hyperparathyroidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1125"></a>7. Patients with hyperuricosuria have increased calcium oxalate urolithiasis due to heterogeneous nucleation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1130"></a>8. Increased protein intake increases the likelihood of renal stones due to increased urinary calcium, oxalate, and uric acid excretion. Moderate calcium ingestion and a reduced sodium diet, when combined with animal protein restriction, reduce calcium stone episodes by approximately 50%.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1135"></a>9. Thiazides may unmask primary hyperparathyroidism by causing a marked rise in serum calcium. They also cause hypocitraturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1140"></a>10. Indinavir stones may not be visible on CT.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1145"></a>11. Furosemide-induced nephrolithiasis should always be considered in neonates who develop nephrolithiasis.<a id="pg357"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="357" id="pagebreak_357"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1150"></a>12. Children with stones should always be worked up because inborn errors of metabolism may be responsible for the stones in a significant number of patients. The inborn errors of metabolism most commonly found in this circumstance include cystinuria, renal tubular acidosis, and primary hyperoxaluria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1155"></a>13. Patients with diabetes mellitus may have altered ammonium metabolism resulting in acidic urine that predisposes them to calcium oxalate and/or uric acid calculi.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1160"></a>14. Sulfate content in a 24-hour urine collection is an indication of the amount of protein intake. Protein intake increases calcium, oxalate, and uric acid excretion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1165"></a>15. Intestinal fat malabsorption characteristic of ileal disease will exaggerate calcium soap formation, limit the amount of “free” calcium to complex to oxalate, and thereby raise the oxalate pool available for absorption.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1170"></a>16. Acid–base status is probably the most important factor in the renal handling of citrate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1175"></a>17. The primary site of intestinal absorption of oxalate is the large bowel.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1180"></a>18. The solubility of uric acid is more than 10 times greater at a pH of 7 than at a pH of 5.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1185"></a>19. Sodium alkali therapy has been complicated by the development of calcium stones (calcium phosphate or calcium oxalate), especially when the urinary pH is above 7.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
