<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0085"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">85</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000859">Physiology and Pharmacology of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Dana A. Weiss, and Robert M. Weiss</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">contraction; obstruction; second messengers; sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system; ureteral peristalsis</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch085_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0160">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0990"></a>1. Efficient propulsion of the urinary bolus depends on the ability of the walls of the ureter to coapt.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0995"></a>2. Autonomic neurotransmitters play little role in maintaining pyeloureteral motility even though the ureter is supplied by sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1000"></a>3. Ureteral muscle fibers are arranged in a longitudinal, circumferential, and spiral configuration.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1005"></a>4. The ureter is a syncytial type of smooth muscle without discrete neuromuscular junctions.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1010"></a>5. Ureteral peristalsis can occur without innervation; however, the nervous system does play at least a modulating role in ureteral peristalsis, particularly the sympathetic nervous system.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1015"></a>6. α-adrenergic stimulation increases ureteral activity. β-adrenergic stimulation inhibits ureteral and renal pelvic activity.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1020"></a>7. Ureteral pressures can be as high as 20 to 80 cm of water during a contraction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1025"></a>8. Pressure within the bladder during the storage phase is of paramount importance in determining the efficiency of urine transport across the UVJ.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1030"></a>9. Ureteral obstruction causes a gradual increase in ureteral length and diameter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1035"></a>10. Infection impairs urine transport by reducing ureteral contractions; it also reduces compliance at the UVJ, which may permit reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1040"></a>11. Progesterone has an inhibitory effect on ureteral function. Progesterone has been noted to increase the degree of ureteral dilatation during pregnancy and to retard the rate of disappearance of hydroureter in postpartum women. The obstruction of pregnancy is primarily due, however, to mechanical factors and secondarily due to the hormonal effects of progesterone.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1045"></a>12. Pacemaker cells have resting potentials less negative than non-pacemaker cells and are located near the pelvicalyceal border.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1050"></a>13. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors and α 1A antagonists cause ureteral smooth muscle relaxation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1055"></a>14. UPJ obstruction may be anatomic or due to a disordered propagation of peristaltic activity. Some have suggested that the latter is due to an alteration in the configuration of the muscle fibers at the UPJ.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1060"></a>15. Ureteral decompensation will occur when there are sustained intravesicular pressures that exceed 40 cm H<sub>2</sub>O.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh urology, ed 11</span>, on the <a>Expert Consult website</a>.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_328"></span><span id="pagebreak_329"></span><span id="pagebreak_330"></span>
</body>
</html>
