<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0086"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">86</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000860">Renal Physiology and Pathophysiology Including Renovascular Hypertension</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Thomas Chi, and Meyeon Park</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">renal artery stenosis; renal pathophysiology; renal physiology</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch086_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0110">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0625"></a>1. GFR reflects total renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0630"></a>2. GFR can be approximated by creatinine clearance.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0635"></a>3. Formulas based on patient’s age, weight, and serum creatinine can best estimate GFR.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0640"></a>4. The nephron has different functional segments that control homeostasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0645"></a>5. Most resorption of bicarbonate and ions occurs in the proximal tubule.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0650"></a>6. The architecture of the loop of Henle allows a highly hypertonic interstitium to develop, which is crucial to maximal urinary concentration.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0655"></a>7. Sodium imbalances should be evaluated in the context of fluid status.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0660"></a>8. The best tools to determine the cause of a sodium disorder are the history, volume status, and urinary sodium.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0665"></a>9. Severe sodium deficit or excess must be corrected slowly.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0670"></a>10. Potassium is primarily intracellular.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0675"></a>11. Serum potassium levels reflect total body potassium, as well as the equilibrium between intra- and extracellular potassium.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0680"></a>12. Symptomatic hyperkalemia requires urgent intervention to prevent cardiac dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0685"></a>13. Water movement dictates solute concentrations, especially important for sodium balance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0690"></a>14. Regulation of water movement is highly dependent on antidiuretic hormone.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0695"></a>15. Insertion of aquaporin channels facilitates water reabsorption.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0700"></a>16. Physiologic chemical reactions require a narrow range of serum pH.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0705"></a>17. Acid is excreted through the lungs and the kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0710"></a>18. Type 1 RTA (distal) is the only type associated with renal stones.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0715"></a>19. In acid-base disorders, first determine whether the kidney (HCO<sup>–</sup>
<sub>3</sub>) or lungs (pCO<sub>2</sub>) are responsible for the primary disorder, then determine whether the compensatory response is appropriate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0720"></a>20. The renin-angiotensin system is one of multiple chemical mediators that act on renal vascular tone to control renal blood flow.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0725"></a>21. Endothelin is the most potent vasoconstrictor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0730"></a>22. Nitric oxide and carbon monoxide are potent vasodilators.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0735"></a>23. Renal physiology influences bone metabolism through several hormonal actions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0740"></a>24. In the kidney, vitamin D is hydroxylated into calcitriol which helps maintain systemic calcium and phosphate levels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0745"></a>25. PTH influences the kidney to increase calcium reabsorption.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0750"></a>26. Renal artery stenosis is the most common cause of renovascular hypertension.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0755"></a>27. Atherosclerotic vascular disease accounts for 2/3 of cases of renal artery stenosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0760"></a>28. Four types of fibromuscular dysplasia can also cause renal artery stenosis. Of these types, medial fibroplasia is the most common and least likely to progress over time.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0765"></a>29. Suspect renovascular hypertension in patients with severe or abrupt-onset hypertension who otherwise have no risk factors for high blood pressure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0770"></a>30. Two models of renovascular hypertension were established with classic dog model experiments—the two-kidney, one-clip and one-kidney, one-clip models.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0775"></a>31. Noninvasive diagnostic imaging, including MR angiography, CT angiography, and duplex ultrasonography, should be first-line screening to diagnosis renal artery stenosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o0780"></a>32. Medical management for renovascular hypertension is the mainstay of therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o0785"></a>33. Percutaneous intervention to treat renal artery stenosis may be effective, but growing evidence calls into question its efficacy to control blood pressure or prevent renal failure long term.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o0790"></a>34. While surgical treatment is no longer first-line therapy for renal artery stenosis, its role still exists for the appropriately selected patient.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_332"></span><span id="pagebreak_333"></span>
</body>
</html>
