<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0065"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">65</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000653">Integrated Men’s Health</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Androgen Deficiency, Cardiovascular Risk, and Metabolic Syndrome</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Neil Fleshner, Miran Kenk, and Steven Kaplan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder cancers; cardiovascular risk; erectile dysfunction; gender differences; men’s health; mental health; metabolic syndrome; prostate cancer; testosterone supplementation</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch065_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0090">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0500"></a>1. Men throughout the world live shorter lives than women throughout the world.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0505"></a>2. The gender gap persists despite improvements in overall life expectancy at birth.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0510"></a>3. Men not only live shorter lives than women, they also live sicker lives.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0515"></a>4. Gender differences in illness-related outcomes reflect social, environmental, and physiological factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0520"></a>5. Innovative and coordinated programs targeting men are required to promote social and behavioral changes that would improve men’s health.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0525"></a>6. Metabolic syndrome, defined as a combination of dyslipidemia, glucose insensitivity, and obesity is increasingly prevalent around the world.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0530"></a>7. In addition to its association with increased CVD risks, metabolic syndrome is linked with pelvic health issues, including lower urinary tract symptoms, ED, and hypogonadism, as well as genitourinary tumors (kidney, bladder, prostate).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0535"></a>8. Dietary or lifestyle modifications may improve outcomes in many of these urologic diseases, with clinical trials currently testing metabolic modulators statins and metformin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0540"></a>9. Exercise-based interventions in men with advanced prostate cancer improve quality of life.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0545"></a>10. Dietary change, weight loss, and exercise may improve erectile function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0550"></a>11. Men’s health should include individualized and precision-based intervention programs to alter the arc of pelvic conditions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0555"></a>12. Testosterone replacement therapy in countering low testosterone levels that occur as part of the aging process is controversial due to inadequately elucidated effectiveness and safety profile.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0560"></a>13. Recent large-scale randomized trials demonstrated some improvements in sexual and physical function and vitality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0565"></a>14. Limited clinical trial evidence and retrospective cohort analyses suggest that testosterone replacement therapy increases the risk of cardiovascular events.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0570"></a>15. Practicing urologists should keep current with the recently updated guidelines and current research on testosterone-replacement therapy to be able to discuss the risks and benefits for individual patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0575"></a>16. There are a number of overlapping risk factors for both CVD and ED.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0580"></a>17. The temporal relationship between ED and subclinical CVD remains to be determined.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0585"></a>18. CAC score can serve as a “disease score” and a surrogate for accelerated atherosclerosis process in arteries, including penile arteries, with implications for vascular ED.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0590"></a>19. Mental health issues, including anxiety, depression, and suicide, are increasingly prevalent in men while concomitantly being under diagnosed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0595"></a>20. Over 6 million men in the United States suffer from depression, including symptoms such as fatigue, irritability, and loss of interest in work or hobbies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0600"></a>21. Men are at higher risk for suicide, with a rate approximately four times higher than that of women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0605"></a>22. Opioid abuse is now a leading health care crisis, with significant morbidity and mortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0610"></a>23. The opioid epidemic is notable for the expansiveness of the problem in the United States, spanning divisions of gender, race, age, and income level<span class="bold">.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0615"></a>24. Clinicians who treat hypogonadism should be cognizant of the relationship between chronic opioid and symptomatic hypogonadism.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_240"></span><span id="pagebreak_241"></span>
</body>
</html>
