<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0115"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">115</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001154">Urinary Incontinence and Pelvic Prolapse</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Epidemiology and Pathophysiology</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Casey kowalik, Gary E. Lemack, and Maude Carmel</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">epidemiology; pathophysiology; pelvic organ prolapse; stress urinary incontinence; urgency urinary incontinence</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch115_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0360"></a>1. Pelvic organ prolapse may mask incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0365"></a>2. The prevalence of urinary incontinence in women is between 25% and 40%. Ten percent of women experience weekly incontinence episodes. Fecal incontinence occurs in 17% of women with pelvic organ prolapse.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0370"></a>3. The female bladder neck is weaker than the male bladder neck and is often incompetent.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0375"></a>4. In women, the majority of the urethra should be considered an active area of sphincter control; however, in the female the most important portion of continence is the mid-urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0380"></a>5. A Valsalva leak point pressure of less than 60 cm H<sub>2</sub>O indicates but does not confirm intrinsic sphincter dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0385"></a>6. Twelve percent of men report terminal dribbling.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0390"></a>7. Rates of overactive bladder increase with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0395"></a>8. Oral estrogen treatment is associated with the development of incontinence. Topical estrogen therapy is not linked to stress incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0400"></a>9. Intrinsic properties of the urethra mucosa and urethra wall are important in maintaining continence in women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0405"></a>10. The anterior vaginal wall provides posterior support of the urethra allowing for compression of the mid-urethra. The urethra is attached laterally to the arcus tendineus by the urethra pelvic ligaments.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0410"></a>11. Urge UI and mixed UI appear to become more prevalent forms of UI with aging.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0415"></a>12. Age is strongly correlated with the development of UI of all types. White women appear to be at greater risk for UI when compared with African American and Asian women in particular.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0420"></a>13. POP-Q points are measured by their distance from the hymenal ring (in centimeters). By definition, Aa and Ap are the points 3 cm from the hymen on the anterior and posterior vaginal walls, respectively. Ba and Bp point represent the leading edge of the most advanced aspect of the prolapse on the anterior and posterior vaginal walls, respectively. Thus they can be well beyond + 3 in advanced prolapse. C point represents the distance from the hymen to the cervix or vaginal cuff (post hysterectomy).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0425"></a>14. The leading edge of the most advanced POP is greater than 1 cm proximal to the hymen in patients with stage 1 prolapse. Stage 2 patients will have their leading edge between 1 cm proximal to and distal to the hymen. Stage 3 indicates a leading edge greater than 1 cm beyond the hymen but not completely everted.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_443"></span>
</section>
</body>
</html>
