<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0140"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">140</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001403">Cutaneous Continent Urinary Diversion</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Guarionex Joel DeCastro, James M. McKiernan, and Mitchell C. Benson</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cecum; cutaneous continent urinary diversion; terminal ileum</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_541"></span><span id="pagebreak_542"></span><span id="pagebreak_543"></span><span id="pagebreak_544"></span>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch140_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0250">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1630"></a>1. The ability to self-catheterize is essential in patients who are to be considered for a continent cutaneous diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1635"></a>2. All patients should be prepared for the possibility of a traditional ileal conduit if intraoperative circumstances warrant it.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1640"></a>3. A patient should have a minimum creatinine clearance of 60 mL/min to undergo a continent urinary diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1645"></a>4. Single J ureteral stents are used in all continent diversions. The stents are brought out through a separate abdominal stab wound, and a Malecot catheter should be placed into the reservoir and brought out through a separate stab wound as well.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1650"></a>5. In continent diversions, it is not clear at this time whether antirefluxing ureteral intestinal anastomoses are necessary to preserve the upper tracts; however, antirefluxing procedures are associated with a higher incidence of stricture over the long term.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1655"></a>6. Most patients are satisfied with the type of urinary diversion, irrespective of whether it is continent or not.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1660"></a>7. It is often useful to secure the reservoir to the anterior abdominal wall to prevent the reservoir from migrating. This is conveniently done where the Malecot exits the reservoir onto the anterior abdominal wall.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1665"></a>8. Renal and hepatic function must be carefully evaluated before a continent diversion is performed. Significant abnormalities in either are a contraindication to continent diversion. The glomerular filtration rate should be 60 mL/min or greater.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1670"></a>9. Patients with rectal bladders are very prone to the complication of hyperchloremic acidosis and total body potassium depletion. These patients also have an increased incidence of rectal cancer.<a id="pg545"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="545" id="pagebreak_545"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1675"></a>10. The loss of the ileocecal valve in patients with neurologic or intestinal disorders subjects the patient to a significant risk of debilitating diarrhea.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1680"></a>11. Any procedure that relies on the intact anal sphincter for continence (i.e., the Mainz II pouch) requires an assessment of the sphincter before carrying out the operation. This can be assessed by an oatmeal enema.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1685"></a>12. Because of an increased risk of malignancy even in the absence of admixture of urine and stool, all large intestinal pouches should be subjected to annual investigation by pouchoscopy and cytology.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1690"></a>13. Nocturnal reservoir emptying may be required with any of the continent cutaneous reservoirs to prevent overdistention and possible rupture, but it is mandatory with ureterosigmoidostomy because of the additional risk of fecal incontinence and metabolic acidosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1695"></a>14. Small bowel pouches have initial capacities that are much lower than those of right colon pouches.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1700"></a>15. The use of absorbable staples is best suited to large bowel pouches. With large bowel pouches there is no problem with staple lines causing subsequent bowel ischemia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1705"></a>16. Although late malignancy has been reported in all bowel segments exposed to the urinary stream, whether or not there is a commingling with feces, the juxtaposition of urothelium, urine, and feces poses the greatest risk.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
