<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0048"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">48</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000483">Disorders of Sexual Development</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Etiology, Evaluation, and Medical Management</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Richard Nithiphaisal Yu, and David A. Diamond</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cryptorchidism; gubernaculum; orchidopexy; subfertility; testicular descent; testicular germ cell tumor</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch048_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>


<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0135">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0820"></a>1. <span class="italic">SRY</span> initiates testicular organogenesis. The <span class="italic">SRY</span> gene is located on the short arm of the Y chromosome.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0825"></a>2. The prostate, urogenital sinus, and external genitalia are all sensitive to DHT.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0830"></a>3. Estrogens are not required for normal female differentiation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0835"></a>4. Patients with Klinefelter syndrome have eunuchoidism, gynecomastia, azoospermia, small testes, and are tall for their age. Muscle development is often poor.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0840"></a>5. Patients with Turner syndrome (XO) have sexual infantilism, webbed neck, and cubitus valgus; are of the female phenotype; are short in stature; and lack secondary sexual characteristics.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0845"></a>6. In patients with Turner syndrome, any Y-chromosome material increases the risk for the streak gonad developing a gonadoblastoma; these patients also have increased incidence of abnormalities of the kidney, including horseshoe kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0850"></a>7. The diagnosis of the salt-wasting type of CAH is made by obtaining a serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone value 3 to 4 days after birth. If it is elevated, the patient has CAH.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0855"></a>8. In patients who have severe forms of CAH difficult to control medically, bilateral adrenalectomy may be the most effective approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0860"></a>9. A distinctly palpable gonad along the pathway of descent is highly suggestive of a testis or rarely of an ovotestis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0865"></a>10. Patients with bilateral impalpable testes or a unilateral impalpable testis and hypospadias should be regarded as having a disorder of sexual development until proven otherwise whether or not the genitalia appear ambiguous. They should have a karyotype.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0870"></a>11. For normal ovarian development there must be two X chromosomes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0875"></a>12. In the developing embryo, MIS and testosterone act locally and unilaterally.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0880"></a>13. Mixed gonadal dysgenesis is the second most common cause of DSD after CAH, and it is characterized by a unilateral testis, a contralateral streak gonad, and persistent Müllerian structures with varying degrees of inadequate masculinization.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0885"></a>14. The syndrome of complete androgen insensitivity is characterized by 46,XY karyotype, bilateral testes, female-appearing external genitalia, and absence of Müllerian structures; the testes are prone to tumors, which usually occur after puberty in 1% to 2% of affected individuals.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0890"></a>15. Persistent Müllerian duct syndrome is due to a defect in the gene for AMH or for the AMH type II receptor in patients with 46,XY karyotype. These patients have normal male external genitalia and internal Müllerian duct structures (fallopian tubes, uterus, and upper vagina).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0895"></a>16. The finding of a palpable gonad in a newborn with ambiguous genitalia effectively rules out overt masculinization of the female (CAH).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0900"></a>17. Patients with Klinefelter syndrome are at eight times the risk for breast carcinoma relative to normal males.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0905"></a>18. Serum MIS is a useful marker for the presence of testicular tissue in the newborn period.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0910"></a>19. Histopathology of the ovotestis will typically demonstrate well-developed ovarian tissue and a dysgenetic testicular component.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0915"></a>20. Patients with complete androgen insensitivity support an unequivocal female gender identity. However, there are a few case reports of patients with male gender identity. One patient required complete sex reassignment with both androgen treatment and phalloplasty.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>T’Sjoen G, De Cuypere, G, Monstrey S, et al: Male gender identity in complete androgen insensitivity syndrome. <span class="italic">Arch Sex Behav</span> 40:635—638, 2011.</p>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_167"></span><span id="pagebreak_168"></span><span id="pagebreak_169"></span>
</footer>
</body>
</html>
