<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0125"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">125</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001257">Slings</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle5050">Autologous, Biologic, Synthetic, and Midurethral</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Alex Gomelsky, and Roger R. Dmochowski</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">complications; midurethral sling; outcomes; pubovaginal sling; stress urinary incontinence; surgery</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>


<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch125_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0245">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1585"></a>1. Urethral slings are the procedure of choice for the surgical correction of female SUI.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1590"></a>2. PVSs should be placed at the bladder neck.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1595"></a>3. Slings are particularly helpful in treating ISD.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1600"></a>4. The majority of patients who require clean intermittent catheterization after PVS placement had a neurogenic bladder preoperatively.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1605"></a>5. Persistent urgency or urgency urinary incontinence are more common than frank urinary retention as presenting symptoms for bladder outlet obstruction after a sling.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1610"></a>6. Maximum urethral closure pressure occurs at the level of the midurethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1615"></a>7. Midurethral slings are less successful in patients with a fixed urethra and/or a low abdominal or Valsalva leak-point pressure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1620"></a>8. Urethral mobility before midurethral sling procedures has been shown to be predictive of success (i.e., the more the proximal urethra moves during a Valsalva maneuver, the better the cure rate for incontinence).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1625"></a>9. For patients with persistently elevated post-void residuals and bothersome symptoms refractory to conservative management after a sling procedure, MUS release procedures consistently provide resolution of symptoms with maintenance of continence in the majority of patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1630"></a>10. Cystoscopy is an integral part of all urethral sling procedures to visualize and exclude any injury to the urethra or bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1635"></a>11. Periurethral bulking agents have limited success in treating SUI.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1640"></a>12. The use of autologous tissue for a sling has the lowest rate of erosion and infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1645"></a>13. The most common reason for patient dissatisfaction following sling surgery is the persistence or development of urgency symptoms and/or urgency urinary incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1650"></a>14. Synthetic material is no longer used for slings placed at the bladder neck.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1655"></a>15. When synthetic mesh erodes into the urethra or bladder, the mesh must be removed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1660"></a>16. Obese patients with incontinence benefit from weight loss.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1665"></a>17. When sling release is performed, a midline incision of the sling is all that is required and the entire sling does not need to be excised.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_480"></span><span id="pagebreak_481"></span><span id="pagebreak_482"></span><span id="pagebreak_483"></span><span id="pagebreak_484"></span><span id="pagebreak_485"></span><span id="pagebreak_486"></span>
</body>
</html>
