<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0012"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">12</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000124">Fundamentals of Upper Urinary Tract Drainage</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Casey A. Dauw, and J.Stuart Wolf Jr </div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">nephrostomy tube; upper urinary tract drainage; ureteral stent</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch012_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0195">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1235"></a>1. Percutaneous nephrostomy and retrograde ureteral stents are generally equivalent in their capacity to resolve fever in patients with upper urinary tract obstruction. However, obstruction complicated by infection is an emergency, and in the unstable patient, percutaneous drainage may be more efficacious.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1240"></a>2. The colon can be lateral or posterior to the right and left kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1245"></a>3. A guidewire that enters the kidney percutaneously and exits the urethra via the meatus (through and through access) may be the only guidewire used when operating on the upper urinary tract. However, in all other situations, two guidewires—a safety and a working guidewire—are required. No matter what the access, it is always prudent to have a safety guidewire in addition to the working guidewire.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1250"></a>4. It is imperative that the dilators do not pass too far into the collecting system because this results in renal pelvic injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1255"></a>5. Percutaneous nephrostomy is generally the preferred approach for endoscopy of the obstructed collecting system in the transplanted kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1260"></a>6. Approximately 1% of percutaneous procedures are complicated by delayed hemorrhage. Delayed hemorrhage is usually due to arteriovenous fistulas or arterial pseudoaneurysms. The preferred management is selective angioembolization.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1265"></a>7. Renal arteries are end arteries and result in loss of the segment of renal parenchyma they supply when occluded. Renal veins communicate with each other.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1270"></a>8. Complications of percutaneous nephrostomy include hemorrhage, collecting system injury, colon injury, pleural injury, neuromuscular injuries, air embolism, and infundibular stenosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1275"></a>9. Although compound calyces are common in the lower pole, they are almost always present in the upper pole.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1280"></a>10. The recommended preoperative cessation periods are as follows: herbal medicines, 1 week; clopidogrel, 5 days; aspirin, 1 week; warfarin, 5 days; nonsteroidal inflammatory agents, 3 to 7 days.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1285"></a>11. The main principle of care of a colon injury associated with percutaneous renal surgery is prompt and separate drainage of the colon and urinary collecting system. The simplest management is to back the nephrostomy tube out of the kidney and into the colon to serve as a colostomy, and then obtain separate access to the upper urinary tract, either with a new percutaneous access that does not traverse the colon or with a retrograde-placed ureteral stent.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1290"></a>12. Intravascular hemolysis from the extravasated water irrigant can be fatal. The irrigant for percutaneous renal surgery should be saline, with the exception of glycine or similar nonelectrolytic isotonic fluids when monopolar electrocautery is used.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_31"></span><span id="pagebreak_32"></span><span id="pagebreak_33"></span><span id="pagebreak_34"></span><span id="pagebreak_35"></span>
</body>
</html>
