<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0088"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">88</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000884">Urological Complications of Renal Transplantation</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Mohammed Shahait, Stephen V. Jackman, and Timothy D. Averch</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">kidney transplant; renal transplantation; urological complications</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch088_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0075">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0390"></a>1. Majority of postoperative hematuria is self-limiting.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0395"></a>2. Consider duplex US for severe or persistent hematuria after renal biopsy to rule out arteriovenous (AV) fistula.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0400"></a>3. Ureteral stent decreases ureteral stricture and urinary leak.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0405"></a>4. Individualized stent removal can be after 3 weeks post-transplantation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0410"></a>5. Strictures are the predominant cause of ureteral obstruction in patients greater than 3 months post-transplantation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0415"></a>6. The primary etiology of ureteral stricture development is ischemia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0420"></a>7. Stricture should be suspected in patients with hydronephrosis and decreased graft function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0425"></a>8. A variety of endourological treatment options have been described to treat ureteral strictures, however, open reconstructive surgery offers superior long-term results.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0430"></a>9. Most of the kidney tumors develop in the native kidneys and are low-grade tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0435"></a>10. Active surveillance, radiation, and surgery (open and minimally invasive) are reasonable options to treat prostate cancer in kidney transplant patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0440"></a>11. Kidney transplant recipients have a threefold risk of urothelial carcinoma (UC) compared with the general population, and it is biologically more aggressive.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_339"></span>
</body>
</html>
