<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0024"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">24</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000240">Pediatric Urogenital Imaging</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Hans G. Pohl</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">computerized tomography; contrast cystography; magnetic resonance imaging; nuclear renography; pediatric imaging; sonography</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch024_assessments.xhtml" height="610"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0045">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0185"></a>1. Sonography is the initial examination to perform for suspect obstruction, as well as being helpful for longitudinal follow-up.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0190"></a>2. Based upon the sonographic findings, ancillary imaging (such as voiding cystourethrography and/or diuresis renography) might be considered.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0195"></a>3. A normal infant renal sonogram can be confused with mature hydronephrosis because of hypoechoic renal pyramids with a distinct corticomedullary junction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0200"></a>4. Diagnosis of obstruction in children with diuresis renography requires review of all parameters of the test because variations in technique can skew results considerably.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0205"></a>5. Sonographically, multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK) is characterized by echolucent spaces (cysts) of varying sizes that are randomly distributed throughout the kidney with a paucity of renal parenchyma that is hyperechoic.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0210"></a>6. Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) typically affects both kidneys and is characterized by enlarged and echogenic parenchyma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0215"></a>7. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) typically affects both kidneys and is characterized by replacement of the renal parenchyma by cysts.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0220"></a>8. Although patient age and hallmark sonographic features suggest the diagnosis of renal masses, contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen should follow.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0225"></a>9. Numerous guidelines have been published on the radiographic evaluation following pediatric urinary tract infection, and sonography is used as an initial screening modality despite its low yield.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0230"></a>10. A normal sonogram is insufficient to risk-stratify a child with a febrile urinary tract infection (UTI) and is not a good predictor for vesicoureteral reflux (VUR).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0235"></a>11. The “bottom-up” approach relies on VCUG—following US—to identify all cases of VUR that may result in overtreatment of low-grade VUR.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0240"></a>12. The “top-down” approach replaces screening US with a DMSA renal scan to identify acute pyelonephritis and/or renal scarring. Proponents of this algorithm recommend VCUG only in response to abnormal DMSA scans as an indicator of high-risk patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0245"></a>13. Abdominal sonography is useful as part of the acute trauma evaluation and compares favorably to contrast-enhanced CT scans. Sonography should be considered for the longitudinal evaluation of known renal injuries, particularly to assess resolution of perinephric hematomas or urinomas.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0250"></a>14. Ionizing radiation is used to evaluate genitourinary trauma, frequently with the addition of intravenous or intraluminal iodinated contrast.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0255"></a>15. Radiographic evaluation is incomplete unless delayed views of the renal parenchyma and collecting system are obtained on CT scan, or lateral projections of the bladder, bladder neck, and urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0260"></a>16. In addition to careful history and physical examination, scrotal sonography provides much of the information needed to discriminate between inflammation, neoplasm, trauma, and testicular torsion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0265"></a>17. Nuclear scintigraphy may be used to evaluate testicular torsion but provides little additional information over what can be gleaned from sonography.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0270"></a>18. Sonography for the undescended testis is unreliable and should not be used, perhaps with the exception of seeking the inguinal undescended testis in an overweight boy.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_71"></span>
</body>
</html>
