<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0052"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">52</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000525">Pediatric Genitourinary Trauma</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Bruce J. Schlomer, and Micah A. Jacobs</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder trauma; genitourinary trauma; kidney trauma; pediatric; renal trauma; urethral trauma; urogenital trauma</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch052_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. The majority of renal trauma can be managed nonoperatively. Grade 4–5 injuries can be managed nonoperatively but have higher risk of undergoing intervention.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. Around 25% of patients with grade 3–5 injuries being managed nonoperatively will have persistent or delayed bleeding. Superselective angioembolization of bleeding vessels is very successful and is the preferred method for management. Repeat angioembolization can also be successful if initial attempt fails.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. Around 15% of patients with a urine leak being managed nonoperatively will have indication for intervention such as ureteral stent placement and/or percutaneous drain placement.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. Repeat CT imaging 48–72 h after injury is not needed for patients with grade 1–3 injuries who are recovering without complication. Repeat CT imaging in 48–72 h may be obtained in patients with grade 4–5 injuries but is of unclear utility if the patient is stable and recovering without apparent complication.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. Indications for operative intervention include hemodynamic instability due to renal bleeding, pulsatile or expanding retroperitoneal hematoma at time of laparotomy without prior renal imaging, and failure of angioembolization to control renal bleeding.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Control of renal vascular should be performed immediately after opening Gerota fascia or prior to opening Gerota fascia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. Operative intervention should include attempts to salvage kidney if possible.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. UPJ disruptions should be repaired in acute phase if patient is stable; otherwise drainage with nephrostomy tube and possible percutaneous perirenal drain with delayed repair should be performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Renal pelvis ruptures may require operative intervention but have been managed successfully with endoscopic and percutaneous urinary drainage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. The risk of renal scarring is negligible in grade 1–2 injuries, approximately 50% in grade 3 injuries, and 100% in grade 4–5 injuries.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. Follow-up imaging for grade 3–5 injuries should be considered. Starting with a renal ultrasound and obtaining CT, MRI, or DMSA scan if necessary is a common approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Hypertension is a rare occurrence after renal trauma in children and typically is only seen after grade 3–5 injuries.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. The development of chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal disease is very rare after renal trauma even when nephrectomy is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0600"></a>14. Patients with a normal solitary kidney can participate in sports, but protective equipment is recommended for contact sports. High-risk activities include dirt bike riding, cycling, and all-terrain vehicle riding.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0605"></a>15. Ureteral injuries are rare with any type of trauma but are most commonly seen with penetrating trauma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0610"></a>16. A contrast-enhanced CT scan with delayed phase or a retrograde pyelogram is the preferred methods to diagnose a ureteral injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0615"></a>17. Ureteral injuries are often associated with other organ injuries in trauma cases and can be missed at initial laparotomy for trauma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0620"></a>18. If a ureteral injury is diagnosed &lt;1 week from injury, immediate repair can be performed and may be preferable if patient is stable.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0625"></a>19. If a ureteral injury is diagnosed &gt;1 week from injury, an attempt at ureteral stent placement can be made, but often a nephrostomy tube with delayed open repair is needed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0630"></a>20. Ureteral injuries in children are repaired similar to adults.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0635"></a>21. A history of pelvic trauma with gross hematuria or inability to void, and pelvic fracture necessitate urologic evaluation with retrograde urethrogram and/or cystogram.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0640"></a>22. Indications to repair an extraperitoneal bladder rupture include need for placement of orthopedic hardware in the field, bony pelvis fragments protruding into the bladder, involvement of the bladder neck in the injury, and concurrent abdominal surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0645"></a>23. Intraperitoneal bladder ruptures are managed with surgical repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0650"></a>24. Bladder neck injuries are more common in children and best served with early repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0655"></a>25. Genital injury in children should raise suspicion for abuse, and if abuse is suspected, concomitant injury to the rectum and anus should be ruled out.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0660"></a>26. Most circumcision injuries can probably be avoided by ensuring that adhesions are properly reduced at the beginning of the procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0665"></a>27. Findings on ultrasound consistent with testicular rupture should prompt surgical exploration.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0670"></a>28. Straddle injuries make up the majority of vaginal injuries. Injuries to bladder, urethra, anus, rectum, hymen, and internal vaginal structures are suggestive of penetrative injury and should prompt evaluation for abuse.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_178"></span><span id="pagebreak_179"></span>
</body>
</html>
