<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0028"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">28</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000288">Clinical and Urodynamic Evaluation of Lower Urinary Tract Dysfunction in Children</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Duncan T. Wilcox, and Kyle O. Rove</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bowel and bladder dysfunction; lower urinary tract; pediatric urology; urodynamics; voiding dysfunction</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch028_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. History and physical should be performed to ascertain whether the patient has primarily a storage or emptying disorder. Further workup and treatment are then tailored as needed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. The important components of a complete history should include symptomatology, voiding frequency, bowel function, prior urinary tract infections, relevant family history, maternal prenatal history including screening ultrasonography, birth history, developmental milestones including toilet training, neuropsychiatric conditions, past medical and surgical history, social history, diet, and review of systems.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. Seven-day bowel and bladder diaries and 48-hour frequency volume charts are invaluable in diagnosing simple and complex lower urinary tract voiding dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. Validated questionnaires can be used to assess symptoms (dysfunctional voiding score system [DVSS], dysfunctional voiding and incontinence score system [DVISS], and incontinence symptom index-pediatric [ISI-P]), quality of life (Pediatric Incontinence Questionnaire [PinQ]), and behavioral changes in response to underlying urinary dysfunction (Child Behavior Checklist [CBCL] and short screening instrument for psychological problems in enuresis [SSIPPE]).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. Particular attention should be paid to the lower back on physical examination with both visual inspection (examine for dimples, deviations of the gluteal cleft, hair tufts, dermal sinuses and vascular malformations) and palpation (presence of sacrum, rule out mass).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Children presenting with lower urinary tract symptoms should have urinalysis testing, with important test details including the specific gravity, protein or glucose, and the presence of white, red blood cells, or bacteria.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. Isolated malodorous urine in the general population lacks sensitivity and specificity to detect positive urine culture in an otherwise asymptomatic patient.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. Blood testing is not recommended unless there are specific concerns for concomitant upper tract disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Noninvasive urodynamics includes modalities like uroflowmetry, patch electromyography, and pelvic ultrasound.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. Uroflowmetry provides useful information regarding flow characteristics during urination, including shape or pattern. Qmax is the most relevant quantitative variable when assessing bladder outflow.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. Ultrasonography is another useful adjunct, noninvasive exam that can provide a number of different clinically important variables, including prevoid and postvoid bladder volumes to calculated a PVR, bladder wall thickness, rectal diameter, and presence of debris.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. EMG provides for assessing coordination between the bladder and external sphincter to determine whether voiding is synergistic or dyssynergic and can also be used in conjunction with uroflowmetry to determine the lag time.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. Urodynamics is the “gold standard” for evaluation and diagnosis of lower urinary tract dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0600"></a>14. Universal strategies of antibiotic prophylaxis or urine cultures prior to urodynamics do not appear to be effective at preventing postprocedure urinary tract infection, which occurs 1.4% of the time.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0605"></a>15. Special considerations in pediatric urodynamics include use of sedation for catheter placement and/or the procedure itself and bladder fill rate, accounting for the varied expected bladder capacities across a wide range of patient ages and sizes.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_84"></span><span id="pagebreak_85"></span>
</body>
</html>
