<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0132"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">132</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001324">Bladder Surgery for Benign Disease</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Paras H. Shah, and Lee Richstone</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">benign disease; bladder surgery; distal ureter; urinary bladder</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch132_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0330"></a>1. For bladder diverticulectomy, the success of surgery is contingent on a meticulous preoperative workup that characterizes the number, size, and location of diverticula. Specifically, the anatomy relative to the ureter should be defined to ensure preservation of the ureter’s integrity during repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0335"></a>2. The disease process underlying formation of the bladder diverticulum should be managed prior to or at the time of diverticular repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0340"></a>3. The fibrous pseudocapsule surrounding the diverticulum serves as a cleavage plane to free the diverticulum from surrounding extravesical tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0345"></a>4. During minimally invasive bladder diverticulectomy, selective catheterization of the diverticulum with a Council-tip catheter placed over a guidewire allows for selective filling of the diverticulum and aids in intraoperative identification.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0350"></a>5. In ureteral reimplantation, aggressive skeletonizing of the ureter during mobilization should be avoided, as this may lead to ischemia and ureteral stricture formation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0355"></a>6. A tension-free anastomosis between the bladder and ureter is critical, as the presence of tension risks anastomotic stricture formation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0360"></a>7. The ureter should be adequately spatulated prior to creation of the anastomosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0365"></a>8. When a nonrefluxing ureteral reimplant is being performed, the length of the submucosal tunnel should be three to five times the caliber of the ureteral lumen.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0370"></a>9. Longer ureteral defects may be bridged through maneuvers such as ligation of the contralateral medial umbilical ligament, dissection of the peritoneal reflection off the bladder dome, or ligation of the contralateral bladder pedicle, all of which are conducive to cephalad displacement of the bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0375"></a>10. During creation of a psoas hitch, sutures that fix the extravesical surface of the bladder to the psoas minor tendon should be placed superficially and parallel to the direction of the muscle fibers to avoid entrapment of the femoral and genitofemoral nerves, respectively.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0380"></a>11. Reimplantation of the ureter should be performed prior to tying the anchoring sutures to the psoas muscle tendon during psoas hitch creation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0385"></a>12. The base of a Boari flap should measure at least 4 cm in width, with longer flaps requiring wider base measurement to maintain adequate blood supply; in this regard, the length-to-base ratio should not exceed 3:1.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0390"></a>13. If a non-refluxing anastomosis is planned into a Boari flap, there should be at least 3 cm of overlap between the flap and the ureteral segment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0395"></a>14. Due to its relative simplicity and versality, advancement flaps may be used in lieu of Boari flaps to bridge longer ureteral defects.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0400"></a>15. In enterocystoplasty, the ileum is most frequently utilized for bladder augmentation given its abundance, ease of mobilization, and robust blood supply.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0405"></a>16. The ileum should be isolated approximately 20 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve to spare the terminal ileum and avoid risk for bile salt and vitamin B12 malabsorption.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0410"></a>17. Detubularization of the isolated intestinal segment is necessary to reduce coordinated peristaltic contractions, which may otherwise contribute to high intravesical pressures</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0415"></a>18. A broad mesenteric base to the isolated intestinal segment should be maintained to avoid torsion of the pedicle as well as preserve a rich blood supply.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0420"></a>19. The bladder should be generously bivalved along its dome so as to facilitate a wide-mouth anastomosis with the intestinal patch; a narrow-mouth anastomosis would result in the creation of a pseudo-diverticulum that may poorly empty and cause complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0425"></a>20. Patients should be counseled regarding the importance of continuous intermittent catheterization as the failure to do so risks perforation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0430"></a>21. Preoperative evaluation should confirm the presence of adequate bladder capacity and the absence of significant voiding symptoms prior to proceeding with partial cystectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0435"></a>22. Partial cystectomy for benign disease processes still require adequate margins of resection given the infiltrative nature of many conditions and the propensity for recurrence in cases of inadequate excision.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0440"></a>23. During minimally invasive partial cystectomy, intraoperative flexible cystoscopy by the bedside assistant can aid the surgeon in identification of the site of bladder pathology.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0445"></a>24. Urachal surgery, when being performed for benign indication, does not require a wide margin of resection of the bladder dome around the site of urachal insertion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0450"></a>25. Approach to bladder stone surgery depends on the size and number of calculi as well as the presence of any associated processes contributing to stone formation that may need to be simultaneously addressed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0455"></a>26. Percutaneous cystolithotripsy is a minimally invasive alterative to management of large bladder calculi; percutaneous access, however, may be prohibited in patients with prior pelvic or abdominal surgery given concern over intestinal injury.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_511"></span><span id="pagebreak_512"></span>
</body>
</html>
