<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0022"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">22</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000227">Perinatal Urology</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">C.D. Anthony Herndon, and Rebecca S. Zee</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">prenatal urinary tract dilation; UPJ obstruction; urinary tract infection; VUR</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>

    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch022_assessments.xhtml" height="730"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0360"></a>1. The initial screening maternal ultrasound is performed at approximately 20 weeks’ gestation. Low-risk pregnancies average two scans and high-risk four scans throughout pregnancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0365"></a>2. Urinary tract dilation represents the second most common condition detected prenatally and occurs in 1% to 3% of pregnancies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0370"></a>3. Ultrasound cannot reliably predict the severity of disease for all urologic conditions. It tends to correlate best with obstructive lesions such as UPJ obstruction or posterior urethral valves (PUV) and less with vesicoureteral reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0375"></a>4. Prenatal detection of urologic disease affords the opportunity for the family to meet with a specialist prior to delivery to become informed of the anticipated course and natural history of the suspected diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0380"></a>5. An inverse relationship exists between the severity of UTD and incidence of urologic disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0385"></a>6. APD demonstrates a linear relationship for obstructive lesions such as UPJ obstruction and PUV.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0390"></a>7. An APD of 15 in the third trimester demonstrates reasonable positive predictive value for the need for surgery for UPJ obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0395"></a>8. The SFU hydronephrosis grading system consists of a five-point grading system that is based on calyceal dilation and integrity of the parenchyma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0400"></a>9. The UTD grading system consists of a combination of APD and SFU systems with the additional inclusion of the lower urinary tract and uses a standardized reporting system and risk stratification.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0405"></a>10. Prenatal intervention for LUTO appears to improve perinatal survival but does not reliably impact long-term renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0410"></a>11. Parental consultation for fetal myelomeningocele closure should take place at a center with expertise in fetal surgery that offers a multidiscipline approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0415"></a>12. Fetal surgery for myelomeningocele appears to improve motor/cognitive skills and decrease the need for VP shunting but does not offer definitive benefit to bladder function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0420"></a>13. Clinical predictors of poor outcome are oligohydramnios less than 27 weeks EGA, renal cortical cysts, and increased echogenicity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0425"></a>14. Prenatal intervention for LUTO appears to improve perinatal survival but does not reliably impact long-term renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0430"></a>15. Fetal cystoscopy affords the opportunity to establish the diagnosis and provide treatment for LUTO.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0435"></a>16. Fetal cystoscopy may offer a short-term advantage for overall renal function when compared with vesicoamniotic shunting, but long-term renal data do not exist.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0440"></a>17. The initial postnatal US should be obtained at 48 hours to account for intravascular depletion that occurs in the initial postnatal period secondary to third spacing, which later becomes mobilized to the intravascular space.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0445"></a>18. UTD classification assigns three levels of risk: P1 UTD (SFU 2) (low risk) APD 10 &lt; 15 mm, P2 UTD (SFU 3) (intermediate risk) APD greater than 15 mm and peripheral calyceal dilation, P3 (SFU 4) (high risk) APD greater than 15 mm and/or positive values for other data points.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0450"></a>19. The degree of APD dilation correlates poorly with the presence and degree of VUR in patients with prenatal UTD.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0455"></a>20. Recommendations for VCUG for prenatal UTD should be based on risk of UTI in the absence of concerns for LUTO.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0460"></a>21. Complete resolution of P1 UTD should occur in most patients by 4 years of age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0465"></a>22. For P1 UTD (SFU 2), PA and VCUG are not recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0470"></a>23. For P2 UTD (SFU 3), the use of PA and VCUG is left to the discretion of the physician.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0475"></a>24. For P3 UTD (SFU 4), PA and VCUG are recommended, as well as a MAG3 renal scan.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0480"></a>25. The degree of dilation is predictive of risk of UTI in patients with prenatal UTD.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0485"></a>26. Risk factors for UTI for prenatal UTD include female, intact foreskin, high-grade kidney dilation, ureteral dilation, and VUR.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0490"></a>27. Prophylactic antibiotics are recommended for those at risk of UTI, including P2 UTD (SFU 3) and P3 UT (SFU 4).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0495"></a>28. Most patients with prenatal UTD will have transient dilation with reported resolution rates between 41% and 88%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0500"></a>29. Prenatal APD dilation of 15 mm in third semester is predictive of the need for surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0505"></a>30. VUR is reported in up to 31% of patients with prenatal UTD and will occur most commonly in males that have bilateral high-grade disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0510"></a>31. Multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK) does not pose an increased risk to Wilms tumor and can be safely observed in most patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o0515"></a>32. Duplication anomalies may be associated with VUR to the lower pole moiety, which may influence decisions for intervention to the obstructed upper pole moiety.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o0520"></a>33. Megaureter will resolve spontaneously in a majority of patients. However, surgical intervention is indicated for recurrent UTI, decreased function, or increasing UTD. Temporizing diverting procedures are recommended for younger than 1 year of age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o0525"></a>34. Fetal closure of myelomeningocele appears to increase motor/cognitive skills and decrease the need for a VP shunt, but it does not improve urologic symptoms and urodynamic parameters or decrease the need for urinary reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o0530"></a>35. A urologic source for abdominal distention in the newborn includes urinary ascites, urinary obstruction (upper and lower tract), renal mass (cystic and solid), and, rarely, a retroperitoneal mass (adrenal).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o0535"></a>36. Urinary retention may occur with LUTO and may occur in males with PUV or females with urogenital (UG) sinus or cloacal anomaly.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o0540"></a>37. Renal tumors are uncommon in the newborn period, and the most common is congenital mesoblastic nephroma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o0545"></a>38. The newborn with ambiguous genitalia (including any newborn “male” with bilateral nonpalpable testes) should prompt an evaluation for electrolyte disturbance due to classical salt wasting congenital adrenal hyperplasia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0205">
<a id="o0550"></a>39. Gross hematuria in the neonate is not common and should be evaluated with a urinalysis and Doppler abdominal ultrasound.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0210">
<a id="o0555"></a>40. The acuity of neonatal testicular torsion will dictate the need for emergent exploration.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_65"></span><span id="pagebreak_66"></span>
</body>
</html>
