<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0014"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">14</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000148">Fundamentals of Laparoscopic and Robotic Urologic Surgery</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Roshan M. Patel, Kamaljot S. Kaler, and Jaime Landman</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">education; laparoscopic and robotic instrumentation; laparoscopy; minimally invasive surgery; robotic surgery</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch014_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0205">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1305"></a>1. Careful patient selection and identification of contraindications for laparoscopic and robotic procedures are vital for successful outcomes. A meticulous past history, focusing on prior surgeries, and physical examination, detailing the location and extent of all abdominal scars, are the initial steps in patient evaluation for minimally invasive surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1310"></a>2. Contraindications to laparoscopic or robotic surgery include uncorrectable coagulopathy, intestinal obstruction unless treatment is intended, significant abdominal wall infection, massive hemoperitoneum or hemoretroperitoneum, generalized peritonitis, and suspected malignant ascites.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1315"></a>3. A checklist ensuring that all essential equipment is present and operational should be completed just before initiating the pneumoperitoneum. Additional items to check when using the da Vinci Robotic System include ensuring that all plugs for the console, vision cart, and patient-side cart are plugged into different circuits and that all cables connecting these carts are connected properly.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1320"></a>4. After placement of the Veress needle, insufflation should never be initiated unless all of the signs for proper peritoneal entry (negative aspiration, easy irrigation of saline, negative aspiration of saline, positive drop test result, and normal advancement test) have been confirmed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1325"></a>5. The open technique is recommended specifically when extensive adhesions are anticipated.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1330"></a>6. Noncutting dilating trocars have superseded bladed trocars because they are safer. These trocars enter the abdomen by spreading the abdominal wall musculature, rather than cutting it, and therefore there is less chance of injuring an abdominal wall vessel and the resulting entry site is less prone to subsequent herniation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1335"></a>7. Carbon dioxide is the most commonly used insufflant because it is noncombustible and rapidly absorbed in the blood.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1340"></a>8. Helium is potentially useful for the patient with pulmonary disease in whom hypercarbia would be poorly tolerated.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1345"></a>9. Intra-abdominal pressures during laparoscopy should not be allowed to exceed 20 mm Hg over extended periods, and a working pressure of 10 to 12 mm Hg is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1350"></a>10. Early in one’s experience with laparoscopic and robotic surgery, it is wise to apply the minimally invasive approach to low-risk surgical candidates of normal body habitus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1355"></a>11. The first sign of gas embolism is an abrupt increase of end-tidal CO<sub>2</sub> accompanied by a sudden decline in oxygen saturation and then a marked decrease in end-tidal CO<sub>2</sub>.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1360"></a>12. Electrosurgically induced thermal bowel injury may occur through one of four mechanisms: inappropriate direct activation; coupling to another instrument; capacitive coupling; and insulation failure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1365"></a>13. Careful planning of trocar placement is essential to avoid crossing swords, striking handles, rollover, and robotic arm collisions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1370"></a>14. Laparoscopic VR trainers have been shown to improve the skills of trainees, helping to prepare them for better performance during live surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1375"></a>15. VR robotic trainers have been shown to have face, content, and construct validity.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_39"></span><span id="pagebreak_40"></span><span id="pagebreak_41"></span><span id="pagebreak_42"></span><span id="pagebreak_43"></span>
</body>
</html>
