<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0109"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">109</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001099">Surgical, Radiographic, and Endoscopic Anatomy of the Male Pelvis</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Jen-Jane Liu, Bryan R. Foster, and Christopher L. Amling</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">anatomy; lower abdominal wall; male pelvis; male perineum</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch109_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>



<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0110">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0640"></a>1. Scarpa fascia on the abdomen forms a distinct layer and is continuous with Colles fascia in the perineum medially. It fuses with the deep fascia of the thigh laterally. Colles fascia is continuous with the dartos fascia of the penis. Thus, urinary extravasation and infections confined by these fascia attachments do not extend down the legs or into the buttocks but may travel cephalad to the clavicles.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0645"></a>2. The internal oblique and the transversalis fascia fuse to form the conjoin tendon, which reinforces the posterior wall of the inguinal canal.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0650"></a>3. A direct hernia of the inguinal canal occurs medial to the inferior epigastric vessels; an indirect hernia occurs lateral to these vessels.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0655"></a>4. The superior vesicle artery arises from the proximal portion of the obliterated umbilical artery. The obliterated umbilical artery may be used to find the superior vesicle artery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0660"></a>5. In 25% of people there is an accessory obturator artery that arises from the inferior epigastric artery and courses medial to the femoral vein.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0665"></a>6. The genitofemoral nerve courses along the ventral surface of the psoas muscle; the femoral nerve runs in the substance of the psoas muscle. Retractors compressing the muscle may result in nerve palsy. Sutures placed perpendicular to the muscle fibers may entrap the nerves.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0670"></a>7. The obturator nerve supplies the adductors of the thigh.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0675"></a>8. The male bladder neck receives abundant sympathetic innervation. The female bladder neck receives little sympathetic innervation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0680"></a>9. The blood supply to the prostate enters at the 4 and 8 o’clock positions. It is important to understand this in prostatectomy when securing hemostasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0685"></a>10. Although lymphatic supply from the prostate is primarily to the obturator and internal iliac nodes, it may drain directly to the presacral and external iliac nodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0690"></a>11. Denonvilliers fascia separates the prostate from the rectum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0695"></a>12. Scrotal lymphatics do not cross the median raphe; drainage is to the ipsilateral inguinal nodes. Lymphatics from the penis cross over extensively and may drain to either or both groin nodes irrespective of the side of the penis involved.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0700"></a>13. The cavernosal nerves pass by the tips of the seminal vesicles and lie within the leaves of the lateral endopelvic fascia and course very close to the apex of the prostate, where they are most vulnerable to injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0705"></a>14. The ureter is anterior (ventral) to the common iliac artery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0710"></a>15. The blood supply to the pelvic ureter enters laterally.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0715"></a>16. The bladder is an intra-abdominal organ in the infant and may project above the umbilicus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0720"></a>17. The muscle of the trigone has three layers: (1) the superficial layer, derived from the longitudinal muscle of the ureter; (2) the deep layer, which arises from Waldeyer sheath on the ureter and inserts at the bladder neck; and (3) the detrusor layer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0725"></a>18. The bladder has a lateral pedicle that is lateral to the ureter and a posterior pedicle that is posteromedial to the ureter.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_420"></span><span id="pagebreak_421"></span>
</body>
</html>
