<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0033"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">33</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000331">Posterior Urethral Valves</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Aseem R. Shukla, and Arun K. Srinivasan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">oligohydramnios; posterior urethral valves; urethral anomalies; valve ablation; valve bladder syndrome</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch033_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</div>
</section>
<section>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0020">Answers</h2>
<div id="p0495"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="numlist" id="p0500">
<a id="o0490"></a>1. <span class="bold">c. Bladder perforation with small amount of urinary extravasation causing ascites.</span> Fetal and neonatal lower urinary tract obstruction due to posterior urethral valves may transmit enough pressure to the upper urinary tract to cause a rupture of a calyceal fornix causing urine to be trapped within the renal capsule or cause ascites, in rare cases. However, bladder perforation is not a characteristic of posterior urethral valves, since the process actually leads to significant bladder wall hypertrophy.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0505">
<a id="o0495"></a>2. <span class="bold">c. Vesicoamniotic shunting has been shown to improve renal failure rates.</span> Thickened dilated bladder and bilateral upper tract dilation imply posterior urethral valves with high sensitivity. Criteria for intervention include favorable urinary chemistry, a singleton pregnancy, normal karyotype, and absence of significant dysplasia. Antenatal intervention includes vesicoamniotic shunting and fetal cystoscopic ablation. Vesicoamniotic shunting is associated with an increased incidence of live births in the severely affected fetus, but is not correlated with decreasing the risk of renal failure. Early reports suggest fetal cystoscopy and ablation are more accurate in diagnosing valve patients and thus have better outcomes. Experience in antenatal intervention is early and varied and hence should only be offered in highly selected cases.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0510">
<a id="o0500"></a>3. <span class="bold">a. Increased intravesical storage pressures transmitted to the ureter, renal pelvis, and glomerular units causing architectural and functional changes.</span> Sustained increases in intravesical storage pressure over prolonged time intervals transmit these pressures to the ureter, renal pelvis, and, ultimately, glomerular units. Of the options provided, this is the most likely etiology of renal insufficiency in this child.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0515">
<a id="o0505"></a>4. <span class="bold">b. No better or worse long-term renal function, still requiring close observation.</span> Contrary to previous assumptions, the so-called vesicoureteric reflux and dysplasia (VURD) syndrome is not a renal protective phenomenon. These children often have evidence of renal dysplasia detectable in the solitary functioning kidney, increasing the likelihood of significant long-term renal impairment.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0520">
<a id="o0510"></a>5. <span class="bold">d. Ambiguous genitalia.</span> All of the aforementioned findings are characteristic findings of posterior urethral valves on antenatal imaging, except ambiguous genitalia. Posterior urethral valves are not associated with external genital anomalies.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0525">
<a id="o0515"></a>6. <span class="bold">c. Pulmonary hypoplasia.</span> While the focus in posterior urethral valves is too often on the lower urinary tract and kidneys, the most profound complication and cause of perinatal mortality in infants affected by severe lower urinary tract obstruction remains pulmonary hypoplasia.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0530">
<a id="o0520"></a>7. <span class="bold">e. Voiding cystourethrogram.</span> Despite the ubiquity of <span id="pagebreak_107"></span>antenatal imaging today, delayed presentation of posterior urethral valves after 6 months of age is not uncommon. A high index of <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="108" id="pagebreak_108"></span>
<a id="pg108"></a>suspicion for posterior urethral valves must be assumed when a boy presents with lower urinary tract symptoms, especially recurrent urinary tract infections, but also overflow incontinence, gross hematuria, renal dysfunction, and, less commonly, ejaculatory dysfunction.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0535">
<a id="o0525"></a>8. <span class="bold">c. Lead to improved pulmonary function in the neonate.</span> Fetal intervention for posterior urethral valves has not been shown to lower the incidence of end-stage renal disease, but, in properly selected cases, it can offer the benefit of improved neonatal pulmonary function. Neonates with severe obstructive uropathy die of respiratory failure due to a noncompliant and hypoplastic lung.</li>
<li class="numlist" id="p0540">
<a id="o0530"></a>9. <span class="bold">a. Creation of a vesicostomy.</span> In the low-birth-weight infant with renal impairment and whose urethra will not accommodate an infant cystoscope, a vesicostomy is the ideal first option. The vesicostomy allows decompression of the obstructed system, allows continued bladder cycling, and is easily managed with diapers. Upper tract diversion is a reasonable option, but does require bilateral incisions and also a complex follow-up surgery that can risk injury to the developing ureters.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0545">
<a id="o0535"></a>10. <span class="bold">c. Conservative management with timed voiding and anticholinergic therapy.</span> Vesicoureteral reflux in children with posterior urethral valves is a common finding and should be understood to be a consequence of neonatal obstruction and the secondarily elevated bladder pressures. Management of this child should be centered on the lower urinary tract with attention to timed voiding, double voiding, and anticholinergics as necessary. Ureteral reimplantation is an option in atypical cases where urinary tract infections continue despite maximal bladder therapy.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0550">
<a id="o0540"></a>11. <span class="bold">a. Detrusor hyperreflexia with high intravesical pressure; improved compliance with reduced intravesical pressures; high-capacity bladder and hypocontractility.</span> The bladder evolves through three distinct contractility patterns through childhood: (1) detrusor hyperreflexia in infancy and early childhood; (2) decreasing intravesical pressures and improved compliance bladder in childhood; (3) increased capacity bladder with hypocontractility and atony in adolescence.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0555">
<a id="o0545"></a>12. <span class="bold">d. Previous history of vesicostomy.</span> The theory of the valve bladder syndrome holds that while the bladder initially compensates for outlet obstruction by generating high voiding pressures, it begins to experience higher volumes of urine due to increasing urine production as the child grows. The polyuria due to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus secondary to evolving renal impairment augments the urine volumes entering a bladder that is increasingly unable to empty completely. As the post-void residuals increase, the bladder no longer enjoys periods of complete relaxation, and the detrusor fibers are continuously in a state of partial or complete stretch, beginning a cascade of gene expression and phenotypic changes that further impair contractility of the bladder. Creation of a vesicostomy does not impair bladder contractility.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0560">
<a id="o0550"></a>13. <span class="bold">e. All of the above.</span> Risk factors known to affect the prognosis of an infant diagnosed with posterior urethral valves include age at diagnosis, renal dysplasia with or without vesicoureteral reflux, nadir creatinine during first year of life, recurrent urinary tract infections, and bladder dysfunction.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0565">
<a id="o0555"></a>14. <span class="bold">d. Ureteral obstruction at site of ureteroneocystostomy.</span> The thickened bladder wall of posterior urethral valve patients may contribute to the significantly increased incidence of ureteral obstruction on univariate and multivariate analysis compared to a non–posterior urethral valve transplant cohort, but recent studies saw no risk of increased graft loss or patient death despite ureteral obstruction, stenting, or dilation.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0570">
<a id="o0560"></a>15. <span class="bold">c. Most children with urethral duplication present with incontinence.</span> Most children with urethral duplication are continent since most duplications occur distal to the urethral sphincter. Although more common in boys, rare reports of female urethral duplications are seen in the literature. Urinary tract infection is not commonly seen in urethral duplication. Blind ending duplications or duplications where both urethra end in or near the orthotopic location do not need surgical correction. Clinical presentation with significant functional abnormalities require surgical reconstruction.</li>
<li class="numlista" id="p0575">
<a id="o0565"></a>16. <span class="bold">d. May be associated with dysfunctional elimination syndrome.</span> Urethrorrhagia presents classically as bleeding at the end of urination, or with a blood stain in the underwear with no association of pain. It is not associated with urinary tract infection. Diagnosis is clinically rendered, based on history and examination and exclusion of other potential causes of gross hematuria. Cystoscopy is not essential for diagnosis, and there are no diagnostic radiological imaging exams. There is a significant association with voiding dysfunction, and improving voiding parameters have been shown to improve symptoms and resolve urethrorrhagia.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="109" id="pagebreak_109"></span>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. Type 1 valves are the most common variant of posterior urethral valves, and appear as leaflets that arise from the verumontanum and fuse anteriorly just proximal to the external urethral sphincter.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. Type 3 valves present as a congenitally obstructing membrane that is likely perforated at the time of the initial post-natal catheterization.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. The incidence of posterior urethral valves is between 1.6 and 2.1 per 10,000 births.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. There is an emerging understanding of the genetic basis for posterior urethral valves, particularly associated with chromosome 11 and copy number variants.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. The renal dysfunction, vesicoureteral reflux, and voiding dysfunction seen in children with posterior urethral valves is mediated by a dysfunctional bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. Renal impairment in posterior urethral valve patients is due to renal dysplasia and obstructive uropathy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. The vesicoureteral reflux and dysplasia (VURD) syndrome confers no protective benefit on long-term renal prognosis. Antenatal diagnosis is primarily by fetal ultrasound sometimes aided by fetal MRI. Combination of thickened dilated bladder with upper tract dilation along with oligohydramnios has a high sensitivity for posterior urethral valves.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. Postnatal diagnosis is with ultrasound and finding confirmed by fluoroscopic voiding cystourethrogram. More recently, contrast-enhanced voiding ultrasonogram is emerging as a good alternative.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. Biochemical evaluation centers on electrolyte and creatinine values. Nadir creatinine value is an effective prognostic indicator for long-term kidney function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. Up to 50% of infants with posterior urethral valves are diagnosed in the antenatal period.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. Severity of obstruction can be objectively assessed by the volume of amniotic fluid, degree of renal dysplasia, and fetal urinary markers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. Vesicoamniotic shunting may have a survival benefit for the infant in select cases, but there is no clear benefit in the risk for renal failure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0630"></a>13. Antenatal finding of a thickened bladder and bilateral ureterectasis should be evaluated with early postnatal ultrasound and voiding cystourethrogram.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0635"></a>14. VCUG in valve patient will show bladder wall irregularity, hypertrophied, elevated bladder neck, and dilated and elongated posterior urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0640"></a>15. The most common cause of early mortality in infants with posterior urethral valves is pulmonary hypoplasia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0645"></a>16. Cystoscopy with valve ablation is the preferred initial treatment for posterior urethral valves.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0650"></a>17. Vesicostomy does not inhibit bladder cycling, as the bladder continues to contract, but is reserved for select cases where valve ablation is not possible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0655"></a>18. High urinary diversion offers no renal protective benefit and requires a complex secondary procedure to reverse the diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0660"></a>19. Circumcision should be encouraged as a prophylactic measure for any boy with posterior urethral valves, and especially any boy with a history of urinary tract infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0665"></a>20. The focus of management for vesicoureteral reflux in a child with valves should be centered on the bladder, and ureteral reimplantation is rarely offered.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0670"></a>21. The bladder evolves through three patterns in boys with valves: (1) detrusor hyperreflexia in infancy and early childhood; (2) decreasing intravesical pressures and improved compliance bladder in childhood; (3) increased capacity bladder with hypocontractility and atony in adolescence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0675"></a>22. Videourodynamics is completed in boys with valves especially when there is a clinical change, such as increasing upper tract dilation or recurrent urinary tract infections.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0680"></a>23. Overnight bladder drainage is considered in the scenario of increasing post-void residuals, urinary tract infections, or worsening hydronephrosis and renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0685"></a>24. An antenatal vesicoamniotic shunt can be considered in select patients with bladder wall thickening, hydroureteronephrosis, and oligohydramnios. While it may reduce the severity of pulmonary hypoplasia, the procedure confers no protection from renal impairment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0690"></a>25. A nadir serum creatinine at 1 year of less than 0.8 mg/dL confers a significantly decreased risk of developing end-stage renal disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0695"></a>26. Transplantation into a valve-affected bladder may carry a higher risk of ureteral obstruction, but there is no increased risk of graft loss compared to controls.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0700"></a>27. Anterior urethral valves and urethral atresia are less common causes of lower urinary tract obstruction (LUTO), and long-term outcomes can be similar to those of posterior urethral valves if the neonate survives.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0705"></a>28. Dysfunctional voiding causing a turbulent urinary flow may lead to urethrorrhagia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0710"></a>29. Treatment for urethrorrhagia should focus on improving voiding habits and conservative management, reserving cystoscopy for refractory cases, and when there is significant straining during voiding.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0715"></a>30. An infant diagnosed with anorectal malformation should undergo a renal ultrasound as well as VCUG due to the high risk of associated genitourinary anomalies.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
