<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0126"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">126</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001269">Complications Related to the Use of Mesh and Their Repair</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Anne P. Cameron</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">complications; pelvic pain; surgical mesh; urinary incontinence; urinary retention</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch126_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>



<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0075">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0385"></a>1. One should aim to remove enough mesh to correct the problem and prevent future mesh complications. Removal of all the mesh is rarely required, and removing asymptomatic mesh is never indicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0390"></a>2. Mesh slings should be circumscribed and divided lateral to the urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0395"></a>3. The amount of mesh removed depends on the indication: Retention = simple division; exposure/extrusion = divide and remove mesh to at least a centimeter from defect; pain = maximal vaginal removal and rarely removal of retropubic or obturator arms.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0400"></a>4. Bladder and urethral perforations are difficult complications to treat and can be managed endoscopically or open with the open approach being more thorough but potentially more morbid.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0405"></a>5. Transvaginal prolapse mesh has a higher rate of mesh exposure/extrusion than slings given the larger volume of mesh. Small exposures can be treated conservatively. Large exposures and pain are treated with vaginal mesh excision; typically the entire vaginal mesh is excised leaving only the arms in place. Vaginal pain/dyspareunia is the most difficult to treat given the multifactorial etiology of pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0410"></a>6. ASC sutures are easily removed vaginally; however, mesh is very difficult to effectively remove transvaginally, often requiring multiple attempts. Open abdominal mesh removal is a potentially very morbid procedure with high risk of bowel injury, vaginal tissue loss, and high blood loss.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0415"></a>7. Male slings often have temporary retention that will typically resolve over time. It is uncommon to require mesh division to resolve it, and urodynamics are helpful in determining obstruction versus bladder dysfunction as the cause.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_488"></span>
</body>
</html>
