<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0101"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">101</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001014">Open Surgery of the Kidney</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Aria F. Olumi, and Michael L. Blute</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">kidney; left renal vein; nephrectomy; right renal artery</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch101_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0145">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0915"></a>1. The right renal artery is posterior to the inferior vena cava.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0920"></a>2. Renal arteries are end arteries; ligation results in infarction of the segment that they supply.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0925"></a>3. The renal venous network intercommunicates.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0930"></a>4. Lumbar veins often enter the left renal vein and, not infrequently, the right renal vein. They enter posteriorly. Care must be taken when encircling the renal vein not to tear one of these lumbar veins.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0935"></a>5. There is no conclusive evidence that renal artery embolization has any immunologic therapeutic benefit.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0940"></a>6. The renal artery is always ligated before the renal vein when performing a nephrectomy; each vessel is ligated individually.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0945"></a>7. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of less than 60 mL/min or those with significant proteinuria are at risk for postoperative renal failure following renal surgery—particularly when a nephrectomy is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0950"></a>8. Adrenalectomy is not recommended as part of a radical nephrectomy unless imaging shows adrenal involvement with tumor or an upper pole tumor is contiguous with the adrenal.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0955"></a>9. Transesophageal echocardiography is an excellent modality to determine the level of the vena cava tumor thrombus immediately before the surgical event.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0960"></a>10. In patients with vena cava tumor thrombi cephalad to the hepatic venous outflow who require CPB, either mild hypothermia and no circulatory arrest or significant hypothermia with circulatory arrest may be performed. Each technique has its advantages and disadvantages. The method used is at the discretion of the surgeon.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0965"></a>11. The addition of a lymphadenectomy to a radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma has a questionable impact on progression-free and overall survival. It may be considered in patients who have enlarged lymph nodes on preoperative imaging, those in whom cytoreductive surgery is being performed, and those with ominous pathologic findings of the primary renal tumor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0970"></a>12. Ligation of the right renal vein will result in failure of the right renal unit due to lack of venous collateral vessels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0975"></a>13. Ligation of the left renal vein is possible because collateral venous drainage may occur through lumbar and gonadal vessels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0980"></a>14. The renal vein ostium of the vena cava should be excised in patients with vena cava tumor thrombi, because invasion of the vena cava vein wall at this site is not uncommonly found.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0985"></a>15. Twenty-five percent of the general population have supernumerary renal arteries.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0990"></a>16. The superior mesenteric artery can be mistaken for the left renal artery from the anterior approach. Rarely, the hepatic artery can be mistaken for the right renal artery. Visualizing the artery from a posterior position relative to the renal vein as it enters the hilum will help identify the renal artery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0995"></a>17. Proposed benefits of preoperative renal artery embolization include shrinkage of an arterialized vena cava tumor thrombus to ease surgical removal, reduced blood loss, facilitation of dissection due to tissue plane edema, and the ability to ligate the renal vein before the renal artery at time of nephrectomy. These patients may develop the postinfarction syndrome (pain, nausea, and fever). The triad of fever, flank pain, and nausea occurs in up to 75% of patients after angioembolization.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_392"></span><span id="pagebreak_393"></span><span id="pagebreak_394"></span>
</body>
</html>
