<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0142"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">142</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001427">Minimally Invasive Urinary Diversion</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Khurshid A. Guru</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">intracorporeal; minimally invasive; radical cystectomy; Robot-assisted; urinary diversion</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch141_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

</div>


<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0430"></a>1. Advantages of robot-assisted approaches for bladder cancer include less pain, minimal blood loss, and earlier return of bowel function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0435"></a>2. Incorporation of intracorporeal urinary diversion has recently increased (annual increase of 11%).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0440"></a>3. Ileal conduit is the most commonly performed diversion with robot-assisted approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0445"></a>4. Mechanical bowel preparation and oral antibiotics should be avoided.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0450"></a>5. Anticoagulant treatment can help avoid significant thrombo-embolic complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0455"></a>6. Preoperative broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics are preferably given up to 1 h within the procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0460"></a>7. Enrollment in the ERAS pathway helps with reduction in length of stay, complications, and readmissions.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0465"></a>8. A six- to seven-port transperitoneal approach in a more cephalad position helps in maneuvering the small bowel.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0470"></a>9. The robotic arm could be used alternatively with an assistant instrument by inserting an additional robotic arm inside 15-mm laparoscopic port.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0475"></a>10. A zero-degree lens is used during the entire procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0480"></a>11. Robotic arms can be undocked and steep Trendelenburg position is reduced for ease of urethra-neobladder anastomosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0485"></a>12. The marionette stitch is not tied but held together using a surgical instrument to allow free movement of the bowel segment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0490"></a>13. Adequate length on the ileocecal end should be preserved to avoid metabolic disturbances and kinking once the conduit is exteriorized.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0495"></a>14. The guidewire is removed only after the anchoring suture is placed as it is difficult to identify the stent due to lack of tactile feedback.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0500"></a>15. We recommend avoid using thermal approach in creating an enterotomy in ileum at site of ureteral anastomosis and retroperitonealize the anastomosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0505"></a>16. Optimizing fluid balance and avoiding over hydration should help manage fluid shift in this patient population with advanced age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0510"></a>17. Adequate pelvic drainage and stenting of ureters especially at the anastomosis has shown to help in bowel recovery and avoid metabolic abnormalities.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0515"></a>18. Irrigation of the neobladder is recommended every 8 h to avoid mucus plugging and catheter blockage.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_552"></span><span id="pagebreak_553"></span>
</body>
</html>
