<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0137"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">137</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001373">Management of Muscle-Invasive and Metastatic Bladder Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Thomas J. Guzzo, John Christodouleas, and David J. Vaughn</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">Bladder cancer; metastatic bladder cancer; muscle-invasive bladder cancer</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_531"></span>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch137_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0070">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0355"></a>1. Among those with muscularis propria–invasive bladder cancer, 80% are seen with the disease at initial presentation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0360"></a>2. Deaths due to bladder cancer invariably occur as a result of distant metastases present at the time of local regional therapy and usually occur within the first 2 years following treatment. Therefore muscularis propria–invasive bladder cancer should be considered a systemic disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0365"></a>3. The micropapillary variant is an aggressive disease and does not respond particularly well to chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0370"></a>4. T1 grade 3 bladder tumors should routinely be re-resected because understaging is not an uncommon event.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0375"></a>5. Fat can be observed in the bladder wall and should not be confused with perivesical fat.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0380"></a>6. Lymphatic and vascular invasion are risk factors for metastases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0385"></a>7. Following chemotherapy, metastases may occur in unusual locations, such as the central nervous system.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0390"></a>8. The incidence of pelvic node metastases is directly related to the depth of invasion and the presence of lymphovascular invasion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0395"></a>9. As many as 50% of patients with muscularis propria–invasive bladder cancer succumb to their disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0400"></a>10. Of the randomized trials evaluating neoadjuvant therapy, most have not shown a definite survival advantage; however, a meta-analysis has shown a small survival advantage for those receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The evidence for adjuvant chemotherapy conferring a survival advantage is less convincing.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0405"></a>11. Appropriate candidates for bladder preservation (transurethral tumor resection, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy thereby preserving the bladder) are those who have a solitary T2 lesion of small diameter with no associated hydronephrosis and a visibly complete resection. Such patients should have normal renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0410"></a>12. As many as 15% of patients with tumors invading the muscularis propria have no residual disease following transurethral tumor resection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0415"></a>13. Factors that affect outcome include stage, performance, status, lymphovascular invasion, age, gender, and histology.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0420"></a>14. Predictors of a poor prognosis include poor performance status and the presence of visceral metastases.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0425"></a>15. Treatment of neuroendocrine bladder tumors includes neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgical resection; neuroendocrine tumors may be associated with a paraneoplastic syndrome (hypercortisolism and hypercalcemia).<a id="pg532"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="532" id="pagebreak_532"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0430"></a>16. There is a significant survival benefit to those who are rendered P0 at the time of radical cystectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0435"></a>17. The highest concentration of prostatic ducts are located from the mid-prostate to the veru at the 5 and 7 o’clock positions and are the locations where CIS of the prostatic urethra is most likely to be found (biopsy should be performed in this location).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0440"></a>18. In women, bladder neck biopsies are a good surrogate for urethral biopsies when an orthotopic bladder is being considered.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0445"></a>19. Skip metastases in nodal disease for bladder cancer are rarely seen; this is not true of prostate cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0450"></a>20. Ureteral margin status is a predictor of upper tract recurrence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0455"></a>21. Prostatic stromal invasion carries a high risk of recurrent disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0460"></a>22. Patients who are not good candidates for cisplatin chemotherapy are those with a poor performance status, a creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min, hearing loss, peripheral neuropathy, and heart failure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0465"></a>23. Although carboplatin is a reasonable choice for patients in whom cisplatin is contraindicated, it should not be considered a first-line therapy.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
