<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0071"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">71</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000719">Disorders of Male Orgasm and Ejaculation</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Chris G. McMahon</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">anejaculation; delayed ejaculation; ejaculation; ejaculatory anhedonia; orgasm headache;; orgasm; painful ejaculation; post-orgasm illness syndrome; post-SSRI syndrome; premature ejaculation; retrograde ejaculation</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch071_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
    </div>
</section>
<section>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0530"></a>1. PE is a common sexual dysfunction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0535"></a>2. PE is associated with negative psychological consequences including distress, bother, and frustration, which may affect quality of life, partner relationships, self-esteem, self-confidence, and can act as an obstacle to single men forming new partner relationships.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0540"></a>3. The evidence-based ISSM definition of lifelong and acquired PE should form the basis of the office diagnosis of lifelong PE.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0545"></a>4. There is limited evidence suggesting that lifelong PE has a genetic basis and acquired PE is most often due to sexual performance anxiety, psychological or relationship problems, and/or ED.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0550"></a>5. Oral SSRI drugs and topical anesthetic drugs are effective and safe treatments for PE.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0555"></a>6. Psychosexual cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has a limited role as a first-line treatment for PE but has an important role as an adjunct to pharmacotherapy, especially in men with acquired PE due to sexual performance anxiety.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0560"></a>7. Men with acquired PE most secondary to co-morbid ED, hyperthyroidism, chronic lower urogenital infection, prostatodynia, or chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS) should receive appropriate etiology-specific treatment alone or in combination with an SSRI.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0565"></a>8. The causes of DE and anejaculation are manifold.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0570"></a>9. Failure of ejaculation can be a lifelong problem (25%) or an acquired problem (75%). It may be global and occur in every sexual encounter or be intermittent or situational.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0575"></a>10. Treatment of men with DE should be etiology-specific and address the issue of infertility in men of reproductive age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0580"></a>11. Drug treatment of men with DE or anejaculation has limited success..</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0585"></a>12. TURP and diabetic autonomic neuropathy are the most common causes of retrograde ejaculation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0590"></a>13. RE and failure of emission can be distinguished by examination of a post masturbatory specimen of urine for the presence of spermatozoa and fructose.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0595"></a>14. Pharmacotherapy is associated with variable degrees of success and includes agents such as pseudoephedrine, midodrine, and imipramine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0600"></a>15. The symptoms of post-orgasmic illness syndrome (POIS) occur following ejaculation and comprise severe myalgia, fatigue associated with a flu-like state, nasal congestion, and itching eyes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0605"></a>16. POIS symptoms commence within 30 minutes of ejaculation in 87% of men and increase in intensity to a peak on day 2.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0610"></a>17. A type 1 hypersensitivity immunogenic reaction has been proposed as the underlying mechanism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0615"></a>18. A prolonged hyposensitization program with multiple subcutaneous injections of autologous semen has been suggested as a possible treatment.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_265"></span><span id="pagebreak_266"></span><span id="pagebreak_267"></span><span id="pagebreak_268"></span>
</body>
</html>
