<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0074"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">74</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000744">Sexual Function and Dysfunction in the Female</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Ervin Kocjancic, Valerio Iacovelli, and ömer Acar</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">biopsychosocial assessment; disability; dysfunction; female sexual response; lower urinary tract dysfunction; transgender; treatment</div>
</section>
<section>
 
<section>
	<span id="s0010"></span>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch074_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
<div id="p0765"></div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0145">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0880"></a>1. The vagina is acidic, with a pH between 4 and 5, and is colonized by microorganisms that produce lactic acid.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0885"></a>2. Testosterone production in women comes directly from the ovaries and adrenal glands. Unlike estrogen and progesterone levels, which fall abruptly with menopause, testosterone levels diminish gradually throughout life.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0890"></a>3. Sexual neutrality or being receptive to rather than initiating sexual activity is considered a normal variation of female sexual functioning.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0895"></a>4. Women with incontinence are up to three times more likely to experience decreased arousal, infrequent orgasms, and increased dyspareunia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0900"></a>5. Lack of estrogen may not directly impair female arousal and desire, but it impairs sexual function by resulting in a decreased vasocongestion and lubrication and increased vaginal epithelial atrophy. Estrogens maintain female genital tissue integrity and thickness.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0905"></a>6. SSRIs have an inhibitory effect on sexual desire, arousal, and orgasm.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0910"></a>7. Optimal female sexual health requires physical, emotional, and mental well-being.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0915"></a>8. Hormonal contraception, prolactin, and elevated sex hormone–binding globulin (SHBG) all tend to decrease bioavailable testosterone.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="pagebreak_276"></span><span id="pagebreak_277"></span><span id="pagebreak_278"></span>
</body>
</html>
