<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0124"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">124</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001245">Vaginal and Abdominal Reconstructive Surgery for Pelvic Organ Prolapse</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">J. Christian Winters, Ryan M. Krlin, and Barry Hallner</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">pelvic organ prolapse; reconstructive surgery</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch124_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0125">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0800"></a>1. The iliococcygeus and the coccygeus muscles fuse in the midline and attach to the coccyx, forming a complex called the <span class="italic">levator plate</span> that supports the upper vagina and cervix.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0805"></a>2. The urethra is fused to the anterior vaginal wall for much of its length.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0810"></a>3. Vaginal support is provided by the endopelvic connective tissues.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0815"></a>4. The cardinal and uterosacral ligaments provide level I support of the uterus and upper vagina; the endopelvic and pubocervical fascia provide level II support of the mid-vagina while it attaches to the arcus tendineus fasciae pelvis; the distal vagina attaches to the levator ani muscles and perineal body to provide for level III support.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0820"></a>5. Pelvic organ prolapse is for the most part a quality-of-life issue.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0825"></a>6. Anterior compartment defects can be central, lateral, or both.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0830"></a>7. Anterior colporrhaphy and paravaginal repairs are both ineffective alone in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. They do not suspend the vaginal apex.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0835"></a>8. Sacrospinous ligament fixation may result in posterior displacement of the vaginal apex and increase the risk of anterior compartment prolapse.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0840"></a>9. If either the bladder or rectum is injured during pelvic organ prolapse repair, mesh should not be used.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0845"></a>10. Reoperation is needed for 29% of women who experience failed incontinence and prolapse surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0850"></a>11. Synthetic mesh grafts erode in 10% of patients in whom they are used for the repair.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0855"></a>12. Sacrospinalis ligament fixation is an effective method of correcting vaginal apical prolapse. It results in posterior displacement of the vaginal apex.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0860"></a>13. Abdominal sacrocolpopexy maximizes functional vaginal length without significant distortion of the anatomic vaginal axis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0865"></a>14. Colpocleisis obliterates a portion of the vagina and may be used to prevent vaginal vault prolapse. It precludes functional sexual activity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0870"></a>15. Cystoscopy after the administration of indigo carmine or methylene blue is recommended as a routine practice after anterior colporrhaphy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0875"></a>16. All women with advanced-stage anterior compartment prolapse should be screened for occult stress urinary incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0880"></a>17. The pain from sacrospinous ligament suspension is either gluteal or radiates down the leg posteriorly. It is neuropathic, and it occurs in 15% of patients.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_476"></span><span id="pagebreak_477"></span><span id="pagebreak_478"></span>
</body>
</html>
