<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0128"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">128</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001282">Aging and Geriatric Urology</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Tomas L. Griebling</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">aging; elderly; geriatrics; older adults</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch128_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. Renal blood flow, renal mass, and functional reserve decrease with aging, which results in a 10-mL decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) per decade.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. Serum creatinine levels do not accurately reflect renal function in the elderly due to decreased muscle mass. The Cockcroft-Gault formula is more accurate than the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation for estimating GFR in the elderly population.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. Antidiuretic hormone secretion decreases in older adults, resulting in increased nocturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. With age, there is a decrease in cardiac output and stroke volume.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. The majority of deaths in the perioperative period in geriatric patients are due to cardiovascular events; however, pulmonary problems are the major cause of prolonged hospitalization.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Hepatic function and immunologic function diminish with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. With aging, there is a loss of muscle mass and an increase in body fat mass.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. Bladder capacity does not change with age; however, bladder sensation, contractility, and ability to postpone voiding decline in both sexes with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Increased involuntary detrusor contractions and decreased bladder elasticity and compliance occur with aging. Indeed, detrusor overactivity is the most common type of lower urinary tract dysfunction in incontinent elderly of both sexes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. There is a decrease in striated muscle in the rhabdosphincter with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. Urinary incontinence, UTIs, pelvic prolapse, and bladder outlet obstruction all increase with aging.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Stress incontinence in elderly women is usually associated with hypermobility and some degree of intrinsic sphincter deficiency.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. A functional assessment is correlated with health care outcomes and includes: (1) activities of daily living, (2) mobility with a slow gate speed a strong predictor of mortality, and (3) cognition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0600"></a>14. Cognitive changes are frequently seen following anesthesia in elderly patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0605"></a>15. There is no difference in mortality and morbidity between general and regional anesthesia in the elderly.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0610"></a>16. Major geriatric syndromes include frailty, falls, pressure ulcers, multiple medications, delirium, and urinary incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0615"></a>17. The frailty phenotype may include an unintentional weight loss in excess of 10 lb per year, reduced grip, slowing of the gait, decreased activity, and easy exhaustion with activity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0620"></a>18. Elderly men on androgen deprivation therapy are at increased risks for fractures.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0625"></a>19. A number of medications should be used with caution or not used at all in the elderly. For example, Demerol and prolonged use of nitrofurantoin should not be given and caution should be exercised when prescribing antimuscarinics. Anticholinergic agents are one of the most common causes of delirium in the elderly, especially in those with preexisting cognitive or functional impairment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0630"></a>20. Asymptomatic bacteriuria in the elderly does not require treatment; it does not cause incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0635"></a>21. Peripheral edema may be mobilized when supine and cause nocturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0640"></a>22. Conservative measures used to treat excessive fluid output at night include compression stockings, changing the time diuretics are taken or administering a rapid acting diuretic in the late afternoon, and altering the diet.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0645"></a>23. Poststroke fecal and urinary incontinence are not uncommon.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0650"></a>24. Incontinence may be due to impaired mobility and/or cognition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0655"></a>25. Timed voidings may be helpful in controlling incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0660"></a>26. An elevated postvoid residual is common in older adults.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0665"></a>27. Decreased fluid consumption may worsen urge incontinence due to the concentrated urine acting as an irritant on the detrusor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0670"></a>28. Pelvic floor exercises, when done correctly, may be helpful in treating incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0675"></a>29. If a chronic indwelling catheter is required, a suprapubic tube is preferable to a urethral catheter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0680"></a>30. α-Blockers are associated with the “floppy iris syndrome,” and the ophthalmologist should be informed of their use prior to any ophthalmologic surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0685"></a>31. An underactive bladder characterized by poor bladder emptying is not necessarily due to outlet obstruction and occurs in both men and women. Both structural and functional changes occur in the bladder. Currently there is no effective medication for this condition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o0690"></a>32. Sleep abnormalities may be responsible for nocturia and may worsen the severity of neurologic conditions which affect the bladder.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o0695"></a>33. Nocturia once per night in the elderly is considered normal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o0700"></a>34. Nocturia is usually multifactorial in the elderly and thus is often not adequately addressed with a single treatment modality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o0705"></a>35. Hyponatremia is a significant risk factor when desmopressin is given to the elderly.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o0710"></a>36. Fecal and urinary problems often coexist, and one may cause the other.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o0715"></a>37. UTIs may present atypically in the elderly with symptoms of confusion, agitation, lethargy, and anorexia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o0720"></a>38. Vaginal estrogens are useful for reducing UTIs in elderly women.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0205">
<a id="o0725"></a>39. Elder mistreatment screening is an important part of the urologic evaluation, just as child abuse screening is an important part of the pediatric urologic visit.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_493"></span><span id="pagebreak_494"></span><span id="pagebreak_495"></span>
</body>
</html>
