<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0116"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">116</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001166">Neuromuscular Dysfunction of the Lower Urinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Alan J. Wein, and Roger R. Dmochowski</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cerebrovascular accident; myelomeningocele; neurogenic bladder; neuroplasticity; spinal cord injury; urodynamics; voiding dysfunction</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch116_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0195">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1235"></a>1. In general, complete spinal cord injury above the sacral spinal cord, but below the area of the sympathetic outflow, results in detrusor overactivity, absent sensation below the level of the lesion, smooth sphincter synergia, and striated sphincter dyssynergia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1240"></a>2. Lesions at or above the spinal cord level of T7 or T8 (the spinal column level of T6) may result in smooth sphincter dyssynergia as well.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1245"></a>3. Neurologic examination is no substitute for urodynamic evaluation in these patients when one is determining risk factors and treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1255"></a>4. A careful initial evaluation and periodic, routine follow-up evaluation must be performed to identify and correct risk factors and potential complications: high-pressure storage, high detrusor leak point pressure, vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), stone formation (lower and upper tracts), and complicating infection, especially in association with reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1260"></a>5. Avoid use of long-term antibiotics to prevent infection in patient performing clean intermittent catheterization (CIC).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1265"></a>6. Ongoing investigations with ventral nerve surgery and use of stem cells may completely change the paradigm of suprasacral cord injury management in the future.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1270"></a>7. Potential risk factors and complications are those previously described, with particular emphasis on storage pressure, which can result in silent upper tract decompensation and deterioration in the absence of VUR.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1275"></a>8. Treatment is usually directed toward producing or maintaining low-pressure storage while circumventing emptying failure with CIC when possible. Pharmacologic and electrical stimulation may be useful in promoting emptying in certain circumstances.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_445"></span><span id="pagebreak_446"></span><span id="pagebreak_447"></span><span id="pagebreak_448"></span>
</body>
</html>
