<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0034"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">34</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000343">Neuromuscular Dysfunction of the Lower Urinary Tract in Children</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Carlos R. Estrada, and Stuart B. Bauer</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">neurogenic bladder; neuromuscular dysfunction</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch034_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</section><span id="pagebreak_111"></span><span id="pagebreak_112"></span>
<section>

<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="113" id="pagebreak_113"></span>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0845"></a>1. Renal ultrasonography and measurement of residual urine are performed as early as possible after birth. Initial evaluation can be compared with findings on subsequent assessments, so that early signs of deterioration of urinary tract function and drainage, or of progressive neurologic denervation, can be detected.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0850"></a>2. Infants at risk for urinary tract deterioration as a result of a poorly compliant or overactive detrusor or outflow obstruction from detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia need to be identified. This determines the need to initiate prophylactic measures before any deterioration in upper urinary tract architecture and function take place.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0855"></a>3. Three categories of lower urinary tract (LUT) dynamics may be detected: synergic (26%), dyssynergic with and without poor detrusor compliance (37%), and complete denervation (36%).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0860"></a>4. Early intervention with CIC and antimuscarinics improves urodynamic parameters and decreases the rate of UTI, vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), upper urinary tract deterioration, and the incidence of end-stage renal disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0865"></a>5. Cystatin C is superior to serum creatinine in monitoring renal function in children with neural tube defects. Renography is the gold standard for estimating glomerular filtration rate (GFR).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0870"></a>6. Determinants of risk of renal dysfunction in spina bifida include: detrusor sphincter dyssynergia, high detrusor pressures, detrusor overactivity, febrile UTIs, and vesicoureteral reflux. These entities should be actively managed to minimize risk of renal functional decline.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0875"></a>7. The primary goal of management is preservation of renal function. Secondary goals of management include urinary/fecal continence, avoidance of urinary tract infection, and facilitation of sexual function and fertility.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0880"></a>8. Preservation of renal function is achieved by maintaining low bladder filling pressures and active management of vesicoureteral reflux and avoidance of urinary tract infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0885"></a>9. The International Children’s Continence Society recommendations for follow-up are based on developmental stages and the relative risk for secondary spinal cord tethering.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0890"></a>10. The CDC-endorsed multicenter collaborative has published a protocol for the management of patients with neurogenic bladder ages from birth to 5 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0895"></a>11. Minimally invasive approaches should precede the use of more invasive therapies to address bladder failure to store urine efficiently or empty effectively. Antimuscarinic therapy and CIC are the mainstay of therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0900"></a>12. Bladder filling pressures should be maintained below 30 cm H<sub>2</sub>O as much as possible to prevent upper urinary tract deterioration.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0905"></a>13. Intravesical injection of botulinum toxin is well tolerated and avoids the need for more invasive treatment options in a high proportion of children with minimal side effects.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0910"></a>14. Enterocystoplasty is an effective option to prevent upper urinary tract deterioration but comes with a high risk of complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0915"></a>15. Patients undergoing isolated bladder neck procedures (artificial urinary sphincter and bladder neck sling) may develop detrusor overactivity and poor compliance that leads to upper urinary tract deterioration, mandating close follow-up.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0920"></a>16. Low-grade reflux in those who are emptying well without outlet resistance can be managed with antibiotic prophylaxis alone. High-grade reflux or those who do not empty well also require CIC.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0925"></a>17. Those with poor compliance with or without hydronephrosis should be started on antimuscarinics.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0930"></a>18. The Credé maneuver is contraindicated in patients with reflux who have a reactive external urethral sphincter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0935"></a>19. Indications for antireflux surgery are similar to those for children without neurogenic bladder. Success rates are similar if effective bladder emptying is addressed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0940"></a>20. Children with an occult neural tube defect often present after age 3 or 4 years with incontinence or constipation. They may present with new urologic symptoms after a growth spurt related to tethering of the spinal cord. Most have a cutaneous abnormality overlying the spine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0945"></a>21. Radiologic examination of the spine, MRI, and renal US are indicated in the initial evaluation. A spinal US may be used as a screening investigation prior to MRI in those less than 3 months of age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0950"></a>22. Urodynamic studies should be done before and after spinal cord detethering.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0955"></a>23. Intervention with spinal cord detethering early in life is associated with better outcomes than when done at a later age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0960"></a>24. Spinal cord abnormalities including a tethered spinal cord, thickened or fatty filum terminale, and a lipoma occur in 18% to 50% of patients with an anorectal malformation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0965"></a>25. The incidence of LUTS in children with cerebral palsy is 16% to 94%, and the most common symptom is urinary incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0970"></a>26. In patients with spinal cord injury, there is an acute phase of spinal shock wherein the bladder is often acontractile and the urethral sphincter nonreactive; with resolution of spinal shock, an overactive detrusor and bladder-sphincter dyssynergy most commonly develop.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0975"></a>27. Patients with a cervical or thoracic spine lesion above T6 are likely to exhibit autonomic dysreflexia during bladder filling and detrusor contractions.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
