<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0159"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">159</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001592">Treatment of Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Maxwell V. Meng, and Peter R. Carroll</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">Advanced prostate cancer; androgen deprivation; high-risk prostate cancer; radiation therapy; radical prostatectomy; tumor staging</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch159_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
</div>
</section>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0465"></a>1. At least 10% of men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer have locally advanced disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0470"></a>2. Risk assessment for locally advanced disease is best determined by a combination of PSA, T stage, cancer grade, and extent of cancer in the biopsy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0475"></a>3. PSA recurrence following radical prostatectomy is influenced by Gleason score, extracapsular extension, seminal vesicle invasion, positive lymph nodes, and positive surgical margins.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0480"></a>4. Neoadjuvant androgen deprivation therapy before radical prostatectomy has no role.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0485"></a>5. Early androgen deprivation therapy appears to have a potential survival advantage in subsets of men with more aggressive disease. Unfortunately, side effects of the therapy may be a sequela.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0490"></a>6. The role of adjuvant radiation therapy following radical prostatectomy is controversial. A subset of patients apparently benefits from adjuvant radiation therapy. Unfortunately, all studies to date are flawed such that specific subsets of patients who will benefit have not been adequately defined.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0495"></a>7. Patients with seminal vesicle involvement or regional lymph node metastases are highly likely to develop progressive disease despite adjuvant local therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0500"></a>8. EORTC trials suggest that improved outcomes are achieved with greater duration of administration of androgen deprivation in combination with external-beam radiation therapy for selected patients with high-grade disease.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>

</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="s0020"></span><span id="s0025"></span><span id="f0010"></span><span id="pagebreak_607"></span><span id="pagebreak_608"></span>
</body>
</html>
