<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0026"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">26</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000264">Core Principles of Perioperative Management in Children</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Sherry S. Ross, and Janey R. Phelps</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">comorbidities; pediatric anesthesia; pediatric pain management; surgical complications</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch026_assessments.xhtml" height="780"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. Families should be informed of current FDA recommendations including what is known and what studies are currently underway to allow thoroughly informed consent.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. Anesthesia risks include nausea, vomiting, bronchospasm, laryngospasm, stridor, emergence delirium, and postanesthesia maladaptive behaviors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. NPO violation significantly increases risk of gastric aspiration and pneumonitis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. Premature infants have a significantly increased risk of perioperative complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. Spina bifida patients have the potential for multiple comorbidities that should be considered perioperatively.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Autonomic dysreflexia is life threatening, and the pediatric urologist should know signs and symptoms of onset.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. Antibiotics are the mainstay of sepsis treatment and should be administered as soon as possible. Cultures should be obtained if possible.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. Urine cultures should be obtained preoperatively when indicated and positive cultures treated with antibiotics based on sensitivities.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Antibiotics are the mainstay to prevent surgical site infections. Selection of antimicrobial should consider the site and potential source of infection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. Pain management is important to discuss with anesthesia for intraoperative and postoperative management.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. Perioperative complications most often occur in the immediate postoperative period.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Postoperative pain control is important for optimal surgical outcomes. A multimodal drug approach is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. Proper administration and disposal of unused narcotics are necessary to prevent overdoses with these medications.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_78"></span><span id="pagebreak_79"></span>
</body>
</html>
