<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0091"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">91</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000914">Urinary Lithiasis Etiology Epidemiology and Pathogenesis</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Margaret S. Pearle, Jodi A. Antonelli, and Yair Lotan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">calcium oxalate; cystinuria; hypercalciuria; hyperoxaluria; nephrolithiasis; supersaturation; uric acid nephrolithiasis</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_348"></span><span id="pagebreak_349"></span><span id="pagebreak_350"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch091_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0170">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1060"></a>1. Renal calculi are two to three times more common in men than women, and in this country whites have the highest prevalence. They are uncommon before the age of 20 years, and the peak incidence occurs in the fourth to sixth decades of life.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1065"></a>2. The prevalence and incidence of stone disease is directly correlated with body mass index; patients with high body mass index excrete increased levels of oxalate, uric acid, sodium, and phosphorus, and are more likely to have urinary supersaturation for uric acid. The incidence and prevalence of stone disease has been increasing around the world.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1070"></a>3. Concentration product is the product of the concentrations of the chemical components.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1075"></a>4. Solubility product is the concentration at which precipitation of the components occurs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1080"></a>5. A solution is saturated when the solubility product is exceeded.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1085"></a>6. When the solubility product is exceeded and precipitation does not occur, the solution is said to be metastable. When precipitation occurs, the concentration at that point is called <span class="italic">formation product.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1090"></a>7. Magnesium and citrate inhibit crystal aggregation (the former complexes with oxalate and the latter with calcium); nephrocalcin inhibits nucleation, growth, and aggregation; Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein inhibits aggregation; and osteopontin inhibits crystal growth, nucleation, and aggregation of calcium oxalate crystals.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1095"></a>8. Nanobacteria have been implicated in calcifying nanoparticles and serving as a nidus for stone formation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1100"></a>9. Most stone-forming salts are found in the urine in a supersaturated state. Inhibitors keep them in solution.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1105"></a>10. The noncrystalline component of stones is called <span class="italic">matrix</span> and generally accounts for about 2.5% of the weight of the stone. It is composed of mucoproteins, carbohydrates, and urinary inhibitors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1110"></a>11. Parathyroid hormone increases renal calcium reabsorption and enhances phosphate excretion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1115"></a>12. Patients with small bowel disease or a history of intestinal resection and an intact colon have an increased oxalate absorption.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1120"></a>13. Calcium absorption occurs primarily in the small intestine at a rate that is dependent on calcium intake.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1125"></a>14. Calcium oxalate accounts for 60% of stones; mixed calcium oxalate and hydroxyapatite, 20%; brushite, 2%; uric acid, 10%; struvite, 10%; and cystine, 1%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1130"></a>15. Hypercalciuria is the most common abnormality identified in calcium stone formation. Hypercalciuria is defined as a urinary excretion greater than 4 mg/kg/day.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1135"></a>16. Absorptive hypercalciuria is defined as an increased urinary calcium excretion after an oral calcium load and is due to increased intestinal absorption of calcium. Alteration of vitamin D receptors and/or sensitivity has been suggested as the etiology. Renal hypercalciuria is due to impaired renal tubular reabsorption of calcium and leads to secondary hyperparathyroidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1140"></a>17. Reabsorptive hypercalciuria is due to hyperparathyroidism. The administration of thiazides to patients with primary hyperparathyroidism exacerbates hypercalcemia. <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="351" id="pagebreak_351"></span>
<a id="pg351"></a>Parathormone-like hormone resulting in hypercalcemia is produced by lung, breast, renal, penile, and head and neck tumors; lymphoma; and myeloma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1145"></a>18. Hyperoxaluria is defined as greater than 40 mg/day excreted in the urine. Foods that are oxalate rich include nuts, chocolate, brewed tea, spinach, broccoli, strawberries, and rhubarb.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1150"></a>19. Hyperuricosuria is defined as urinary uric acid excretion exceeding 600 mg/day.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1155"></a>20. Hyperuricosuria promotes sodium urate formation, which promotes calcium oxalate stone formation through heterogenous nucleation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1160"></a>21. Citrate inhibits stone formation by complexing with calcium and thereby preventing spontaneous nucleation of calcium oxalate; it inhibits agglomeration and growth of the crystal, and it enhances the inhibitory effect of Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein. It prevents heterogeneous nucleation of calcium oxalate by monosodium urate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1165"></a>22. Hypocitraturia is defined as urinary citrate excretion of less than 320 mg/day.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1170"></a>23. Renal tubular acidosis, type 1 (distal tubular RTA) is characterized by calcium phosphate stone formation, hypercalciuria, hypocitraturia, and an increased urinary pH.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1175"></a>24. Low magnesium levels result in reduced inhibitory activity and are often associated with decreased urinary citrate levels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1180"></a>25. Cystine stones form due to a defect in the transport of four amino acids: cystine, lysine, ornithine, and arginine. It is inherited as an autosomal recessive and accounts for up to 10% of stones in children. There are two genes involved in the inheritance of the disease. There are three types based on urine excretion amounts: types A, B, and AB.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1185"></a>26. Stones of infection (struvite stones) are composed of magnesium ammonium phosphate and may contain carbonate apatite; they occur in association with urea-splitting bacteria. Urease-producing pathogens include <span class="italic">Proteus, Klebsiella, Pseudomonas,</span> and <span class="italic">Staphylococcus.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1190"></a>27. The cause of stones associated with horseshoe kidneys and ureteropelvic junction obstructions is due to both the anatomic abnormality resulting in stasis and an underlying metabolic abnormality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1195"></a>28. Medullary sponge kidney is characterized by ectasia of the renal collecting ducts and leads to stones through renal acidifying defects, hypercalciuria, and hypocitraturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1200"></a>29. Most stones in pregnancy pass spontaneously.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1205"></a>30. The most important determinate of uric acid stone formation is low urinary pH. Low urinary pH in uric acid stone formers is likely due to impaired ammoniagenesis associated with insulin resistance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1210"></a>31. Medications that may precipitate as stones include triamterene, silica, indinavir, ephedrine, and ciprofloxacin.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1215"></a>32. Heterogeneous nucleation occurs when microscopic impurities or other constituents in the urine promote nucleation by providing a surface on which the crystal components can grow.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1220"></a>33. Intestinal oxalate absorption is modulated by dietary oxalate and calcium intake and by the presence or absence of <span class="italic">O. formigenes.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1225"></a>34. Acid–base status determines urinary citrate excretion. Metabolic acidosis reduces citrate excretion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o1230"></a>35. The sarcoid granuloma produces 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D<sub>3</sub>, causing increased intestinal calcium absorption, hypercalcemia, and hypercalciuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o1235"></a>36. Malabsorption from any cause, including small bowel resection, intrinsic disease, or jejunoileal bypass, increases luminal fatty acids and bile salts. Calcium, which normally complexes with oxalate, forming a soluble complex that is lost in the stool, instead binds to fatty acids, thereby increasing luminal oxalate available for absorption. In addition, poorly absorbed bile salts increase colonic permeability to oxalate, further increasing oxalate absorption.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o1240"></a>37. Type 1 or distal tubule RTA is characterized by an impairment in hydrogen ion secretion. Type 2, or proximal RTA, is characterized by impaired bicarbonate reabsorption in the proximal tubule. Type 4 RTA is common in diabetics with chronic renal damage who demonstrate aldosterone resistance.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
