<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0041"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">41</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000410">Ectopic Ureter, Ureterocele, and Ureteral Anomalies</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Irina Stanasel, and Craig A. Peters</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">ectopic ureter; hydronephrosis; incontinence; ureterocele</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch041_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0850"></a>1. An ectopic ureter in a duplex system inevitably drains the upper pole.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0855"></a>2. In females, the ectopic ureter may enter from the bladder neck to the perineum or into the vagina, uterus, or rectum.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0860"></a>3. In males, the ectopic ureter always enters the urogenital system above the external sphincter and may enter wolffian duct structures, such as the vas deferens, seminal vesicles, and ejaculatory duct.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0865"></a>4. The orifice of a cecoureterocele is within the bladder; however, the ureterocele may extend beyond the bladder neck into the urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0870"></a>5. The ectopic ureter inserts into the wolffian duct structure and not directly into a müllerian structure. Therefore, in the female, for an ectopic ureter to enter the vagina, cervix, or uterus, it requires a rupture into those structures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0875"></a>6. The Weigert-Meyer rule states that an ectopic ureter or ureterocele is associated with the upper pole and is located caudal and medial to the lower pole ureteral orifice.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0880"></a>7. A young boy presenting with epididymitis might have an ectopic ureter.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0885"></a>8. A toilet-trained girl with verified continuous urinary leakage should be evaluated for an ectopic ureter.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0890"></a>9. A ureterocele or ectopic ureter associated with a patulous bladder neck may be complicated by incontinence. Cecoureteroceles are at particular risk for this.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0895"></a>10. On endoscopy, ureteroceles vary in their appearance with bladder filling.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0900"></a>11. An obstructed ureterocele may be treated endoscopically by multiple punctures or by a transverse incision. Both techniques have similar rates of success in decompression. In a transurethral incision of the ureterocele, the incision is made transversely as close to the bladder floor as possible. This may prevent subsequent reflux.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0905"></a>12. In patients with an ectopic ureter who present with sepsis and have massive ureteral dilatation, a temporary end ureterostomy may be the best management.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0910"></a>13. When the upper pole of the kidney is removed for an ectopic ureter, the residual stump is rarely problematic.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0915"></a>14. The separation of duplex ureters distally in the intravesical dissection should be discouraged because it may injure the common blood supply.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0920"></a>15. Conditions that routinely affect the single-system kidney generally affect the lower pole of a duplex system, such as ureteropelvic junction obstruction and vesical ureteral reflux. Conditions that affect the upper pole are more likely due to abnormal ureteral formation, such as ectopia and ureterocele.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0925"></a>16. On a voiding cystourethrogram, if early filling views are not obtained, a ureterocele may efface and the filling defect may not be visible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0930"></a>17. Fibroepithelial polyps most commonly occur at the ureteropelvic junction but may occur anywhere in the ureter.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0935"></a>18. Correction of the circumcaval ureter requires ureteral division and relocation ventral to the vena cava.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0940"></a>19. When the upper pole of a duplex system associated with an ectopic ureter demonstrates function, preservation of renal tissue is typically recommended. Two reasonable options exist for this, including proximal ureteropyelostomy, which excises most of the usually dilated upper pole ureter, or distal ureteroureterostomy, which permits drainage without any manipulation of the perirenal tissues. No data exist to support one versus the other, and both are reasonable options.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_141"></span><span id="pagebreak_142"></span><span id="pagebreak_143"></span>
</body>
</html>
