<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0156"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">156</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001567">Laparoscopic and Robotic-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy and Pelvic Lymphadenectomy</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Li-Ming Su, Brandon J. Otto, and Anthony Costello</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">laparoscopic prostatectomy; pelvic lymphadenectomy; robotic prostatectomy; salvage prostatectomy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch156_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>
    </div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_598"></span>
<section>
<a id="s0015"></a>

<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="599" id="pagebreak_599"></span>
<a id="pg599"></a>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. Regarding patient selection, it is strongly advised that patients with more complex anatomic challenges (e.g., large prostate size, large median lobe, morbid obesity, prior pelvic surgery, after radiation, after transurethral resection of prostate [TURP]) be avoided in a surgeon’s early experience with LRP and RALP; however, these patient features are not by themselves absolute contraindications for a minimally invasive approach to prostatectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. Having a skilled bedside assistant who is well versed in basic laparoscopy, but also specifically in the mechanics, setup, and troubleshooting of the robotic system, can greatly facilitate RALP procedures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. Both surgeon and anesthesiologist must be aware of the unique physiologic effects of prolonged pneumoperitoneum with patients in the steep Trendelenburg position, including hypercarbia and acidosis, corneal edema, increased intraocular pressure, and neurapraxia and take proper steps to prevent such complications.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. Use of a transperitoneal or extraperitoneal approach is based primarily on surgeon preference because there does not appear to be a significant advantage of one approach over the other.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. The robotic technology facilitates suturing and dissection for surgeons who may not have advanced laparoscopic skills.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. Identification of the precise margin between the bladder neck and prostate can be accomplished by using a set of physical maneuvers and visual cues.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. After division of the anterior bladder neck, the presence or absence of a median lobe should be defined before division of the posterior bladder neck.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. Complete mobilization of the plane between the posterior prostate and rectum is an important step in avoiding rectal injury and defining the medial aspect of the prostatic pedicles and neurovascular bundles (NVBs).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. Use of thermal energy should be minimized during control of the prostatic pedicles and dissection near the NVBs, as thermal energy has been shown to be deleterious to cavernous nerve function in both animal and human studies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. An interfascial dissection of the NVB is preferred in patients with presumed organ-confined cancer who desire NVB preservation for potency.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. An anterior or posterior protruding lip of prostate should be anticipated when dividing the prostatic apex from the urethra to avoid an iatrogenic positive apical margin.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. Bladder neck reconstruction may be required if there is a size discrepancy between the bladder neck and urethra, especially in patients with prior TURP, median lobe, or large prostate gland.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0630"></a>13. The vesicourethral anastomosis is most efficiently accomplished with a running continuous suture.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0635"></a>14. Complications and Outcomes of RALP: (1) <span class="bold">Patient positioning</span>: Care must be taken when positioning in the Trendelenburg position that any potential, area of neural compression is padded. (2) <span class="bold">Blood loss</span>: Blood loss of robotic prostatectomy is usually minimal, and transfusion requirements should be less than 2%. (3) <span class="bold">Bowel injury</span>: Injury to the rectum is well reported but rare, and should be repaired when recognized. The rectal injury rate is higher in salvage surgery. (4) <span class="bold">Urine leak</span>: This occasionally occurs through a non-watertight anastomosis and requires a longer urinary catheter period. (5) <span class="bold">Bladder neck stricture</span>: The occurrence of bladder neck stricture is much reduced since the introduction of robotic anastomotic technique. The rate should be less than 5%. (6) <span class="bold">Machine failure</span>: Machine failure is rare and impacts less than 0.5% of cases. (7) <span class="bold">Oncologic outcomes</span>: There is equivalence in oncologic outcomes between robotic and open radical prostatectomy. The robotic oncologic outcomes (margin negative) are better when surgery is performed in a high-volume centers. (8) <span class="bold">Potency outcomes</span>: This is a statistically better outcome for potency recovery following robotic prostatectomy versus the open method. (9) <span class="bold">Continence outcomes</span>: Even in the best hands, at least 20% of men following robotic prostatectomy will not be pad free, and 5% will have severe incontinence irrespective of technical excellence. (10) <span class="bold">Minimally invasive surgery outcomes.</span> Following robotic prostatectomy, patients can be discharged in 24 hours and return to normal activity within 3 weeks. This is a significant advantage of the minimally invasive surgical approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0640"></a>15. Pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND) is generally recommended in patients with intermediate- or high-risk prostate cancer or by having a &gt;5% risk of nodal metastasis using a clinical nomogram.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0645"></a>16. Although an extended PLND may yield a higher lymph node count, debate continues as to the extent of PLND and the clinical benefit of removing cancerous nodes, given the increased time and complications rates.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0650"></a>17. Use of clips on identifiable lymphatic channels can minimize the occurrence of postoperative lymphoceles.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0655"></a>18. A transperitoneal approach is not protective against the formation of a lymphocele because loculation of lymphatic fluid can still occur within the peritoneal cavity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0660"></a>19. Symptomatic lymphoceles, which cause local problems such as venous or bladder compression, may require percutaneous or laparoscopic drainage.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
