<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0049"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">49</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000495">Surgical Management of Differences of Sexual Differentiation and Cloacal and Anorectal Malformations</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Richard C. Rink</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cloaca; cloacal anomaly; disorders of sex development; DSD; urogenital sinus</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch049_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0060">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0290"></a>1. The communication of the vagina with the urinary tract usually occurs in the mid to distal urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0295"></a>2. In patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia, the location of the confluence of the vagina and the urethra is the critical determinant in the surgical management.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0300"></a>3. Hydrometrocolpos is frequently the initial sign of a urogenital sinus abnormality. It is caused by urine draining into the vagina with poor vaginal drainage.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0305"></a>4. Persistent clitoral hypertrophy may occur in premature infants without DSD.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0310"></a>5. A cervical impression in the dome of the vagina seen on genitography denotes normal female internal organs.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0315"></a>6. When gonads in the neonatal period require biopsy, a deep biopsy is appropriate because the ovarian component of an ovotestis may cover the testicular component.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0320"></a>7. Renal anomalies commonly occur in patients with a persistent cloaca.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0325"></a>8. Women with CAH are less satisfied as adults with their genitalia than are controls.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0330"></a>9. Genital reconstruction must address clitoroplasty, labiaplasty, and vaginoplasty.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0335"></a>10. When clitoroplasty is performed, the glans, tunics, and neurovascular bundles should be preserved. The neurovascular bundles should not be mobilized.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0340"></a>11. The timing of surgery for genital reconstruction is controversial: vaginoplasty is best combined with clitoroplasty and labiaplasty as a single procedure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0345"></a>12. Vaginoplasty may be performed with a posterior-based perineal flap for low vaginal confluence, a pull-through vaginoplasty for a high confluence, and vaginal replacement for an absent or rudimentary vagina.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0350"></a>13. The flap in a “flap vaginoplasty” must reach the normal caliber of the vagina; that is, it must be placed cephalad to the narrowed area of the distal vagina.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0355"></a>14. A vaginoplasty performed in the neonatal period will usually require a secondary procedure after puberty.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0360"></a>15. In cloacal malformations, surgical management initially involves decompression of the gastrointestinal tract, generally with a colostomy, and decompression of the genitourinary tract. This is followed by correction of urinary collecting system abnormalities that impair urine flow. A single-stage repair of rectal, vaginal, and urethral abnormalities is performed at a later date when the child is stable.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0365"></a>16. Intermittent catheterization of the vagina may successfully decompress the genitourinary tract in cloacal malformations.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0370"></a>17. Spinal cord abnormalities are frequently found in patients with persistent cloaca.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0375"></a>18. In patients who have had corrective surgery for cloacal abnormalities, a high percentage have a neuropathic component to both urinary and fecal incontinence.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0380"></a>19. In planning treatment for a transverse vaginal septum, it is critical to determine whether there is a cervix and, if present, its exact location relative to the septum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0385"></a>20. Vaginal atresia differs from vaginal agenesis and testicular feminization in that the Müllerian structures are not affected. As a result, the uterus, cervix, and upper portion of the vagina are normal.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_171"></span>
</body>
</html>
