<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0084"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">84</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000847">Surgical, Radiologic, and Endoscopic Anatomy of the Kidney and Ureter</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Mohamed A. Elkoushy, and Sero Andonian</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">anatomy; endoscopy; kidneys; pelvicalyceal system; radiology; ureters</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch084_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0090">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0500"></a>1. The medial aspect of each kidney is rotated anteriorly 30 degrees.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0505"></a>2. The 12th rib overlies the right kidney; the 11th and 12th ribs overlie the left kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0510"></a>3. The columns of Bertin contain the interlobar arteries.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0515"></a>4. Renal hilar structures from anterior to posterior are renal vein, renal artery, and renal pelvis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0520"></a>5. The line of Brodel is an avascular plane between the anterior and posterior segments. It is variable in location and must be defined for each individual kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0525"></a>6. Lumbar veins may drain directly into the renal veins, which occurs more commonly on the left. They may be the source of troublesome bleeding when dissecting around the renal vein.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0530"></a>7. Gerota fascia encasing the kidneys, adrenal glands, and abdominal ureters is closed superiorly and laterally and serves as an anatomic barrier to the spread of malignancy as well as a means of containing perinephric fluid collections. Superiorly, the Gerota fascia is continuous with the diaphragmatic fascia on the inferior surface of the diaphragm, whereas inferiorly, the anterior and posterior layers of Gerota fascia are loosely attached where perinephric fluid collections can track inferiorly into the pelvis without violating Gerota fascia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0535"></a>8. Each renal artery divides into five segmental end arteries that do not anastomose significantly with other segmental arteries. They are end arteries and, when occluded, cause renal tissue ischemia and tissue atrophy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0540"></a>9. The renal venous drainage has extensive collateral communication, and occlusion of a segmental vein will not impair the venous drainage to that segment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0545"></a>10. Removal of the periureteral adventitial tissues containing the blood supply can result in ureteral ischemia and subsequent stricture.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0550"></a>11. The blood supply of the ureter is medially in the proximal part, posteriorly in the mid portion, and laterally in the distal portion.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_325"></span><span id="pagebreak_326"></span>
</body>
</html>
