<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0062"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">62</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000628">Molecular Genetics and Cancer Biology</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Karen Sandell Sfanos, and Mark L. Gonzalgo</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">cancer; molecular genetics; tumor suppressor genes</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_228"></span><span id="pagebreak_229"></span><span id="pagebreak_230"></span><span id="pagebreak_231"></span>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch062_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0190">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1200"></a>1. Mutations in DNA can lead to changes in protein function or expression that increase the potential for cancer initiation, progression, or metastasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1205"></a>2. Tumor suppressor genes normally negatively regulate and control cellular growth. Oncogenes normally promote cell growth.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1210"></a>3. Loss of tumor suppressor gene function can occur primarily by: (1) homozygous deletion, (2) loss of one allele and mutational inactivation of the second allele, (3) mutational events involving both alleles, and (4) loss of one allele and epigenetic inactivation of the second allele.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1215"></a>4. Certain tumor suppressor genes do not follow the “two-hit” hypothesis and may be inactivated via dominant negative mutations or haploinsufficiency.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1220"></a>5. Proto-oncogenes can be converted to oncogenes by: (1) mutation of the proto-oncogene resulting in an activated form of the gene, (2) gene amplification, and (3) chromosomal rearrangement.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1225"></a>6. The cell cycle consists of an ordered, unidirectional series of events, the main goal of which is to replicate the cell’s genome and partition one copy into each of two resulting daughter cells.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1230"></a>7. The cell cycle is divided up into 4 phases; G1, S, G2, and M. The transition from G1 into S is critically dependent on phosphorylation of the RB1 tumor suppressor protein. Mutations in <span class="italic">RB1</span> are common in urologic malignancies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1235"></a>8. Phase-specific phosphorylation of substrate proteins by cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks) orchestrates progression through the cycle.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1240"></a>9. The activities of cdks are dependent upon their association with specific cyclin proteins. Cyclins accumulate and are rapidly degraded in a phase-specific manner, thus assuring the proper sequencing and irreversibility of key events throughout the cell cycle.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1245"></a>10. Primary points of cell cycle control are the G1S and G2M checkpoints. Checkpoints employ cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKI) proteins to pause the cell cycle in response to a variety of signals, including DNA damage, cell-cell contact, cytokine release, and hypoxia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1250"></a>11. The TP53 tumor suppressor protein is a key player in cell cycle checkpoints, responding to DNA damage by signaling cell cycle arrest and repair of the DNA damage. If the DNA damage cannot be repaired, TP53 may trigger cell death (apoptosis).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1255"></a>12. <span class="italic">TP53</span> is the most commonly mutated gene in cancer and plays a prominent role in genitourinary malignancies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1260"></a>13. Defects in cell cycle checkpoints lead to unregulated cell proliferation and genetic instability.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1265"></a>14. Methylation occurs specifically at CpG dinucleotides in the genome. The presence of 5-methylcytosine in DNA can result in spontaneous deamination to thymine and, therefore, the formation of C→T transition mutations.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1270"></a>15. DNA methylation can affect gene function by subsequent mutational events or epigenetic mechanisms. Methylation of CpG islands associated with the promoter region of genes may result in suppression of gene expression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1275"></a>16. Loss of promoter methylation of normally methylated genes can lead to inappropriate gene expression; for example, expression of oncogenes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1280"></a>17. DNA damage does not often lead to malignancy because the cell possesses multiple repair mechanisms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1285"></a>18. Defects in DNA repair facilitate the accumulation of the mutations critical for tumor formation and progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1290"></a>19. NER is a major defense against DNA damage caused by ultraviolet radiation and chemical exposure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1295"></a>20. BER repairs damage caused by spontaneous deamination of bases, radiation, oxidative stress, alkylating agents, and replication errors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1300"></a>21. MMR removes nucleotides mispaired by DNA polymerase.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1305"></a>22. Double-stranded break repair (DSBR) is a major defense against DNA damage caused by ionizing radiation, free radicals, and chemicals.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1310"></a>23. Many syndromes involving inherited defects in DNA repair exhibit marked increases in cancer susceptibility, strongly linking genomic instability and cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1315"></a>24. Large variations in chromosome numbers and complex structural rearrangements, as well as intra-tumoral variation in these aberrations, are hallmarks of most human solid tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1320"></a>25. The extent of chromosomal abnormalities typically correlates with disease severity and aggressiveness.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1325"></a>26. Recurrent structural rearrangements occur in prostate (ETS gene fusions), renal (MiTF/TFE family translocation carcinomas), and testicular cancers (isochromosome 12p).<a id="pg232"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="232" id="pagebreak_232"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1330"></a>27. Copy number alterations in a particular gene, coupled with changes in the other allele, are evidence for that gene functioning as a disease-relevant oncogene or tumor suppressor gene.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1335"></a>28. Genes discovered to have germline mutations that cause familial forms of cancer may also be involved in the sporadic form of the disease (e.g., VHL in ccRCC).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1340"></a>29. High-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarrays have been used in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to identify DNA sequence variants associated with cancer risk.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1345"></a>30. Low-grade bladder cancers that progress are typically high-grade papillary tumors of the luminal molecular subtype, and high-grade bladder cancers that originate de novo are more consistent with basal-like expression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1350"></a>31. Telomeres contain stretches of terminal, non-coding, repetitive DNA that cap the ends of each chromosome, thereby stabilizing them.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1355"></a>32. Telomere DNA repeats are progressively lost as cells divide and as a result of oxidative DNA damage at the telomeres.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1360"></a>33. Normal cells monitor their telomere lengths and permanently exit the cell cycle (cellular senescence) or commit suicide (apoptosis) in tumor-suppressive responses to telomere shortening. This telomere length checkpoint involves TP53 and RB1.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1365"></a>34. Loss of telomere length checkpoints leads to critical telomere shortening, which initiates chromosomal instability contributing to cancer initiation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o1370"></a>35. Most cancers and pre-malignant lesions have abnormally short telomeres.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0190">
<a id="o1375"></a>36. Most cancers express the enzyme telomerase, which re-stabilizes the telomeres and allows unlimited cell division potential (immortalization); thus telomerase represents an attractive therapeutic target.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0195">
<a id="o1380"></a>37. Apoptosis is a rapid, orderly programmed form of cell death that is utilized by multicellular organisms to eliminate unwanted cells.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0200">
<a id="o1385"></a>38. Apoptosis is believed to play an important role in tumor suppression, as many of the signals that induce apoptosis arise from potentially tumorigenic cell stresses such as DNA damage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0205">
<a id="o1390"></a>39. Cancer is characterized by interruptions in the normal process of apoptosis, resulting in inappropriate cell survival.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0210">
<a id="o1395"></a>40. Apoptosis is mediated by a conserved family of proteases known as caspases. Initiator caspases start caspase proteolytic cascades terminating in the activation of executioner caspases that target several cellular proteins.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0215">
<a id="o1400"></a>41. Two main apoptotic pathways have been identified. In the intrinsic pathway, Bcl-2 family members modulate the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria, which participates in the activation of initiator caspases. The extrinsic pathway activates caspases in response to signals from extracellular “death receptors.”</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0220">
<a id="o1405"></a>42. In addition to its functions in cell cycle arrest and DNA repair, TP53 plays a key role in apoptosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0225">
<a id="o1410"></a>43. Bcl-2 is a classic inhibitor of the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis and is overexpressed in some genitourinary malignancies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0230">
<a id="o1415"></a>44. Therapeutic response is often dependent upon the integrity of apoptotic pathways in the cancer cells. Most testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) retain intact DNA damage response (DDR), wild type TP53, and apoptotic responses, providing high cure rates with DNA damaging agents.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0235">
<a id="o1420"></a>45. Novel agonists and antagonists of apoptosis, such as ceramide and clusterin, may successfully be controlled to combat cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0240">
<a id="o1425"></a>46. Stem cells are defined by their ability to differentiate along multiple lineages and their immortality.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0245">
<a id="o1430"></a>47. Cancer is believed to be a stem cell disease in which a small population of cancer stem cells maintains the larger tumor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0250">
<a id="o1435"></a>48. Cancer may ultimately be eradicated by targeting only the cancer stem cell.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0255">
<a id="o1440"></a>49. The PD-1 pathway limits immune activity resulting in decreased autoimmunity and cytokine.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0260">
<a id="o1445"></a>50. Inhibition of the interaction between PD-1 and PD-L1 can enhance T-cell response and mediate antitumor activity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0265">
<a id="o1450"></a>51. PD-1/PD-L1 blockade for treatment of advanced or metastatic bladder cancer has demonstrated efficacy as first-line treatment for cisplatin-ineligible patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0270">
<a id="o1455"></a>52. Nivolumab has been shown to improve overall survival with fewer adverse events compared to everolimus in patients with RCC who received previous treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0275">
<a id="o1460"></a>53. Loss-of-function mutations in PBRM1 were associated with clinical benefit among patients with metastatic clear cell RCC who received anti-PD-1 therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0280">
<a id="o1465"></a>54. The clinical dogma that urine is sterile has been challenged by studies describing distinct microbiota present in urine that are representative of species residing within the urinary tract. These microorganisms would have previously been under or unrecognized using standard clinical microbiology culture techniques.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0285">
<a id="o1470"></a>55. Direct interactions between the urinary microbiome and genitourinary cancer development or progression is now an area of active study.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0290">
<a id="o1475"></a>56. Indirect interactions between the microbiome, such as the GI microbiota, and genitourinary cancers is also an area of active research. The GI microbiota may have a strong influence on treatment response and/or related toxicities to cancer therapies.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
