<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0096"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">96</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000963">Benign Renal Tumors</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">William P. Parker, and Matthew T. Gettman</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">angiomyolipoma; benign renal mass; cystic nephroma; leiomyoma; metanephric adenoma; mixed epithelial and stromal tumor; oncocytoma; papillary adenoma; renal cyst</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch096_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0085">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0465"></a>1. Renal cyst disease is the most common benign renal tumor.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0470"></a>2. Acquired cystic kidney disease is associated with a significant increase in malignancy risk and should be followed closely.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0475"></a>3. Most cysts require no additional follow-up or therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0480"></a>4. The Bosniak classification is a useful tool to estimate malignancy risk and direct therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0485"></a>5. Renal oncocytoma is the most common benign enhancing renal mass.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0490"></a>6. Oncocytomas are histologically similar to chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and immunohistochemical staining may be required to distinguish the two.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0495"></a>7. Oncocytoma is associated with Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome: characterized by pulmonary cysts, spontaneous pneumothoraces, and fibrofolliculomas.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0500"></a>8. When suspected, a percutaneous biopsy may provide a diagnosis when core tissue is available for additional immunohistochemical studies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0505"></a>9. Active surveillance represents a reasonable treatment strategy that minimizes risk and increases certainty based on growth kinetics.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0510"></a>10. Angiomyolipoma is a benign tumor of dysmorphic blood vessels, smooth muscle, and adipose tissue that can be diagnosed definitively on cross-section imaging due to the presence of macroscopic fat.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0515"></a>11. Most patients present asymptomatically; however, angiomyolipomas (AML) is the most common cause of spontaneous retroperitoneal hemorrhage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0520"></a>12. Tuberous sclerosis is associated with the development of multifocal and bilateral renal AML and is associated with activation of the mTOR pathway.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0525"></a>13. Treatment depends on size, presence of symptoms, and pregnancy status and should be tailored to the patient with the goal of renal function preservation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0530"></a>14. The treatment of choice in patients with acute hemorrhage is selective renal angioembolization.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0535"></a>15. Everolimus is indicated for the management of larger, multifocal AMLs in patients with TSC and lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0540"></a>16. Papillary adenomas are ≤5mm in size and are therefore not readily diagnosed on imaging.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0545"></a>17. Papillary adenomas share common immunohistochemical staining, genetic changes, and are found in association with papillary RCC, suggesting a commonality between these diseases.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0550"></a>18. Metanephric adenoma is a rare, benign enhancing renal mass. Symptoms are present in approximately 50% of patients, with a female predisposition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0555"></a>19. Metanephric adenoma may exist on a continuum with Wilms tumors and papillary RCC, and can be distinguished based on histology and immunohistochemical staining.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0560"></a>20. Cystic nephroma and mixed epithelial and stromal tumor (MEST) are biologically related and histologically similar.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0565"></a>21. Frequent expression of estrogen and progesterone receptor in tumor tissue is reported with a female predisposition.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0570"></a>22. If feasible, a nephron-sparing approach with partial nephrectomy is the preferred management strategy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0575"></a>23. Leiomyomas are described along the urinary tract, but most often from the renal capsule.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0580"></a>24. Radiologic examination is insufficient to confirm the diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0585"></a>25. Nephron-sparing approaches are preferred when technically possible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0590"></a>26. Multiple rare tumors of the kidney have been described.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0595"></a>27. Radiologic differentiation from renal malignancy is not possible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0600"></a>28. Reninoma, a benign tumor of the renal juxtaglomerular cell apparatus, is an important but rare cause of secondary hypertension and hypokalemia.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_370"></span><span id="pagebreak_371"></span>
</body>
</html>
