<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0057"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">57</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000574">Interstitial Cystitis/Bladder Pain Syndrome and Related Disorders</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Robert M. Moldwin, and Philip M. Hanno</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder pain syndrome; bladder wall; interstitial cystitis; lower urinary tract</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_201"></span><span id="pagebreak_202"></span><span id="pagebreak_203"></span><span id="pagebreak_204"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch057_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0180">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1130"></a>1. IC/BPS may be defined clinically as “an unpleasant sensation (pain, pressure, discomfort) perceived to be related to the urinary bladder, associated with lower urinary tract symptoms of more than six weeks duration, in the absence of infection or other identifiable causes. The pain or discomfort usually mounts with bladder filling and is the factor that typically prompts urinary frequency. The diagnosis of IC/BPS is one of exclusion because there is no specific test or marker that is diagnostic.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1135"></a>2. Prevalence studies for IC/BPS show wide variation with a general upsurge over time likely related to a more “liberalized” definition of the condition.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1140"></a>3. Current epidemiology suggests approximately 3 million females and 2 million males in the USA with IC/BPS symptoms. A female to male ratio of 5:1 is cited, based upon clinical practice.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1145"></a>4. Sexual dysfunction in female IC/BPS may have a profound effect upon their physical and mental QoL, underscoring the importance of identifying and ultimately treating this problem when present.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1150"></a>5. Common overlapping functional disorders such as high-tone pelvic floor dysfunction, overactive bladder syndrome, vulvodynia, and IBS may necessitate a multidisciplinary approach to achieve symptom relief.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1155"></a>6. The MAPP research network has demonstrated two distinct pain phenotypes in the IC/BPS patient: those with pelvic pain only and those with “pelvic pain and beyond,” the latter group representing over 75% of patients. This suggests that many patients have pain derived from the central nervous system.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1160"></a>7. Fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome, and atopic allergic reactions are overrepresented in the IC/BPS population.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1165"></a>8. High-tone pelvic floor dysfunction has been identified in 70% to 94% of IC/BPS patients either on the basis of urodynamically proven voiding dysfunction or reproduction of pelvic pain upon examination of the pelvic floor musculature.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1170"></a>9. The Hunner lesion (formerly termed “Hunner ulcer”) is the pathognomonic finding for the “classical form” of IC and represents a minority of the IC/BPS population. HLs are easily identified during office cystoscopy, although bladder distention beyond functional capacity and other imaging strategies have been used to enhance identification. Mounting evidence suggests that BPS is indeed a syndrome and distinct from those patients presenting with HLs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1175"></a>10. There are no reliable differences in clinical presentation between IC/BPS patients with or without HLs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1180"></a>11. IC/BPS is chronic, the symptoms wax and wane, and remissions are common. Symptom flares are identified in the vast majority of patients, most commonly lasting for days. Common triggers are dietary factors and physical activities, that is, sexual relations, exercises.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1185"></a>12. Some men diagnosed with chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome, Category III, may also meet criteria for an IC/BPS diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1190"></a>13. Prodromal symptoms related to pelvic pain and irritative voiding are often experienced decades before a formal diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1195"></a>14. A childhood presentation for IC/BPS is extremely rare. The average age of onset is 40 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1200"></a>15. Adult female first-degree relatives of patients with IC/BPS may have a prevalence of IC/BPS 17 times that found in the general population.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1205"></a>16. Although ketamine abuse may be seen at any age, the clinician should be especially wary of the young patient who presents with a clinical picture of IC/BPS with or without visible inflammation of the bladder wall.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1210"></a>17. There is no histology pathognomonic of IC/BPS. While inflammatory features can be seen in 24% to 76% of patients, histological features are often bland. HLs show a dense, often panmural lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate. The current role of biopsy in the management of the IC/BPS patient is in the patient with HLs to rule out other pathology such as carcinoma in situ.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1215"></a>18. Antiproliferative factor (APF) is secreted by bladder epithelial cells, inhibits bladder epithelial cell proliferation, and is used as a marker of the disease. It may be the primary cause of syndrome in some patients. Urine APF appears to have the highest sensitivity and specificity of the markers studied for this disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1220"></a>19. Current studies suggest that the etiology of IC/BPS symptoms may vary. Local processes such as “leaky epithelium,” mast cell activation, and neurogenic inflammation may produce symptoms for some patients; however, the presence of co-morbid widespread pain syndromes, regional pain syndromes, and immune-mediated pain in the majority of patients suggest that more global pathologies may also be responsible.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1225"></a>20. Cross-sensitization among pelvic structures, that is, bowel and bladder, may contribute to chronic pain syndromes because this may result in alteration in function of adjacent pelvic organs.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1230"></a>21. Bladder compliance in patients with IC is normal; however, capacity is often reduced and pain/discomfort is reproduced with filling.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1235"></a>22. Failure to diagnose other causes of pelvic pain, that is, high-tone pelvic floor dysfunction, vulvodynia, that may occur with or without IC/BPS is one of the most common reasons for a suboptimal therapeutic outcome.<a id="pg205"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="205" id="pagebreak_205"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1240"></a>23. Microscopic hematuria and/or pyuria are not reliable findings to predict the presence of an HL. Office cystoscopy should be considered if an HL is suspected or the patient is not responding to empiric therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1245"></a>24. Although hydrodistention of the urinary bladder is not part of the standard diagnostic evaluation, recent findings suggest that a low bladder capacity at the time of hydrodistention (anesthetic bladder capacity) may represent a distinct clinical phenotype, having higher symptom scores and fewer reports of depression and irritable bowel syndrome, essentially a more bladder-centric patient picture. The presence of glomerulations (puntate submucosal hemorrhages identified during hydrodistention) is not necessary for diagnosis. The finding lacks sensitivity and specificity.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1250"></a>25. Conservative treatment strategies are recommended with progression to more aggressive care in the setting of poor symptom control and an unacceptable quality of life. Initial aggressive care may be indicated for patients who present with severe symptomatology that, in the clinician’s opinion, is unlikely to have an adequate response to more conservative measures.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1255"></a>26. Patient education, dietary manipulation, nonprescription analgesics, and pelvic floor relaxation sensation techniques constitute the initial treatment of BPS.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1260"></a>27. Catastrophic thinking, the irrational, consuming fear of a disastrous outcome, appears to enhance the perception of pain, but may be modified with cognitive behavioral therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1265"></a>28. Many patients find their symptoms adversely affected by certain food/beverage groups. A step-wise method to determine dietary sensitivities such as an elimination diet may play an important role in patient management.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o1270"></a>29. Pentosan polysulfate sodium (an oral agent) and dimethylsulfoxide (an intravesical agent) are the only two FDA-approved medications for the treatment of IC/BPS symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o1275"></a>30. Amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, is not FDA approved for the treatment of IC/BPS. Nevertheless, it remains a staple of oral treatment given its antihistaminic properties, its ability to promote sleep, and reduce neuropathic (central and peripheral) pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o1280"></a>31. Intravesical agents may improve symptoms of IC/BPS but would have limited success in those patients with centralized pain. The frequency and duration of therapy, and the value of maintenance therapy have not been well studied.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o1285"></a>32. Sacral neuromodulation and intradetrusor injection of botulinum toxin A are currently considered as fourth-line treatment strategies. Although urinary retention is a relatively rare event with BTX-A, caution should be exercised when considering its use in the patient with obstructive voiding symptoms.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o1290"></a>33. Major reconstructive procedures may be considered when all conservative forms of management have failed. Diversion, and even cystectomy with diversion, cannot guarantee a pain-free result, and it is critical for the patient to factor this into their decision. Patients with a clear-cut source of bladder pain (such as HLs) with a small-capacity, poorly compliant bladder are most likely to have a favorable clinical outcome.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o1295"></a>34. Substitution cystoplasty and continent diversion both fail in some IC/BPS patients because of the development of pain in the bowel segment used or contraction of the bowel segment.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
