<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0100"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">100</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001002">Retroperitoneal Tumors</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Timothy A. Masterson, Clint Cary, and Richard S. Foster</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">germ cell tumor; retroperitoneum; RPLND; sarcoma</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch100_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0065">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0325"></a>1. Many tumors of the retroperitoneum (RP) grow silently over months or years, thus presenting with sizeable dimensions and adjacent organ involvement.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0330"></a>2. Cross-sectional imaging offers the best means of assessing size and extent of disease. Serologic testing plays an important role, specifically in germ cell tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0335"></a>3. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) and/or core biopsies remain an important tool in the evaluation and management of many diseases, and their diagnostic value should be considered in the initial workup of all RP masses.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0340"></a>4. Adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapies will continue to be expanded and incorporated as part of the multimodal approach to cancer treatment.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0345"></a>5. No disease process has exemplified this more than the management approach for testicular cancer patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0350"></a>6. In sarcoma, the heterogeneity across the spectrum of histologic entities and their biologic differences in response to radiation and systemic therapies restrict one’s ability to make sweeping recommendations as to the timing and sequencing of different therapies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0355"></a>7. Accordingly, using a multidisciplinary team to explore all available options to ensure optimal management of the RP mass offers patients the greatest chance of a successful outcome.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_390"></span>
</body>
</html>
