<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/math.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0119"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">119</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001191">Nocturia</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Stephen D. Marshall, and Jeffrey P. Weiss</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">desmopressin; frequency volume chart; global polyuria; hyponatremia; nocturia; nocturnal bladder capacity index; nocturnal polyuria index; nocturnal polyuria; voiding diary</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch119_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0395"></a>1. There is a clear impact of aging on the prevalence of nocturia. Younger people are more likely to manifest decreased nocturnal bladder capacity, whereas older people manifest overproduction of urine.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0400"></a>2. Accumulation of fluid in the dependent parts of the body (third spacing) and return of fluid to the circulating volume when the patient is recumbent may be an underlying cause of nocturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0405"></a>3. The pathophysiology of nocturia may be related to increased mean arterial blood pressure when supine and an alteration of circadian rhythm of ADH (ordinarily there is an increased production of ADH at night during the hours of sleep).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0410"></a>4. Twenty percent of people aged 20–40 years awake to void two or more times compared with 60% of those 70 years or older.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0415"></a>5. Two or more voids a night are clinically significant.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0420"></a>6. Obstructive sleep apnea is a common cause of nocturia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0425"></a>7. Desmopressin may result in hyponatremia; women are more sensitive to the drug than are men.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_454"></span>
</body>
</html>
