<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0045"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">45</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000458">Hypospadias</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Christopher J. Long, Mark R. Zaontz, and Douglas A. Canning</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">2-stage repair; complications; hypospadias; reoperative hypospadias single-stage repair; single-stage repair; surgical technique</div>
</section>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch045_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0175">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1100"></a>1. Dihydrotestosterone at the 8- to 12-week gestational phase is a key mediator in the proper development of the penis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1105"></a>2. There is an increased risk of hypospadias in births resulting from assisted reproduction and monozygotic twins.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1110"></a>3. The etiology of hypospadias is multifactorial, but placental disruption and androgen disruption, in part via environmental exposures, are potential culprits in what is thought to be an increasing rate of hypospadias development. Anogenital distance is a reflection of disruption of this cascade.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1115"></a>4. Parental discussion about the risk of hypospadias repair should include the risks of early anesthesia exposure versus the benefits of early surgery in infancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1120"></a>5. Preoperative androgen stimulation can transiently increase the penile length and size for surgery. Its impact on complication development is controversial.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1125"></a>6. Physical examination in a patient with hypospadias may reveal a ventral deficient prepuce, downward glans tilt, deviation of the median penile raphe, ventral curvature, scrotal encroachment onto the penile shaft, scrotal cleft, and penile scrotal transposition.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1130"></a>7. Eighty percent of urethroplasty complications occur within 1 year after surgery. Delayed complications, such as urethral stricture or penile curvature, can present in a delayed fashion. Thus boys, particularly those with proximal hypospadias, should be followed into puberty.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1135"></a>8. Risk factors for complications following urethroplasty include proximal meatus, reoperation, glans width less than 14 mm, and lack of a barrier flap over the neourethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1140"></a>9. Long-term follow-up of patients who have had a hypospadias repair indicates that they are more likely to have ejaculatory problems, are less satisfied with sexual function, and are more likely to be dissatisfied with the appearance of their penis than controls. Patient-reported outcomes are an underrepresented component of follow-up and must be a focus of future studies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1145"></a>10. The combination of a penile anomaly with undescended testis may indicate a difference of sex development (DSD). Although more commonly found with proximal hypospadias and a nonpalpable gonad, it is still advised to obtain a karyotype in any child with hypospadias and cryptorchidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1150"></a>11. Curvature less than 30 degrees can be straightened by a single dorsal plication without clinically apparent shortening of the penis. Objective measurement of penile curvature, as identified by artificial erection after penile degloving, is an important part of the surgical procedure. Transection of the urethral plate and/or ventral corporal grafting are reserved for cases with curvature greater than 30 degrees after degloving and dartos dissection.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1155"></a>12. Meatotomy or skin flap repair of meatal stenosis most often fail in the presence of BXO, whereas excision of all tissues affected by BXO with staged buccal grafting is considered most likely to succeed without recurrent stenosis. These patients will have up to a 40% failure rate; therefore they must be closely monitored.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1160"></a>13. For buccal mucosal reconstruction, lip tissue placement is preferable within the glans, because it is thinner than cheek tissue and results in a lower complication rate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1165"></a>14. Urethrocutaneous fistula is the most common complication after hypospadias repair. If there is supple tissue present, a primary closure can be attempted, but if thin glans tissue is present or located at the corona or distal, then redo urethroplasty and glans closure should be performed.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_155"></span><span id="pagebreak_156"></span><span id="pagebreak_157"></span><span id="pagebreak_158"></span><span id="pagebreak_159"></span>
</body>
</html>
