<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0053"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">53</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000537">Pediatric Urologic Oncology</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle8945">Renal and Adrenal</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Michael L. Ritchey, Nicholas G. Cost, and Robert C. Shamberger</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">angiomyolipoma; congenital mesoblastic nephroma; nephroblastoma; neuroblastoma; renal cell carcinoma</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle9070">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch053_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0150">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0920"></a>1. Neuroblastoma is the most common extracranial solid neoplasm in children.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0925"></a>2. Children 18 months of age or younger have a better survival rate than older children. This may be attributed to more favorable biologic parameters in tumors diagnosed at this age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0930"></a>3. Complete surgical resection is curative for low-stage disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0935"></a>4. <span class="italic">MYCN</span> amplification, found in 20% of patients with primary tumors, is associated with tumor progression. This poor prognosis is independent of patient age and tumor stage. Additional biologic markers of poor prognosis have been defined and treatment protocols are currently based on these factors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0940"></a>5. Deletions of <span class="italic">WT1</span>, located on chromosome 11p, are found in patients with aniridia and Wilms tumor. Mutations of <span class="italic">WT1</span> occur in DDS.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0945"></a>6. Local recurrence is increased in Wilms tumor patients with local tumor spillage, and this is now classified as stage III disease. The 2-year survival rate after local recurrence is 43%.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0950"></a>7. Patients with bilateral Wilms tumor should be treated with preoperative chemotherapy. This will allow more patients to undergo renal sparing surgery in an attempt to decrease the risk of renal failure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0955"></a>8. Congenital mesoblastic nephroma (CMN) is the most common renal tumor in infants.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_181"></span><span id="pagebreak_182"></span><span id="pagebreak_183"></span>
</body>
</html>
