<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0082"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">82</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000823">Surgery for Benign Disorders of the Penis and Urethra</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Ramón Virasoro, Gerald H. Jordan,, and Kurt A. McCammon</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">flaps; genital reconstruction; genital trauma; grafts; penile amputation; penile reconstruction; phalloplasty; urethral reconstruction</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch082_assessments.xhtml" height="630"></iframe>

</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0175">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1090"></a>1. A meshed split-thickness graft that is applied to the genitalia should not be expanded but rather placed on the recipient site without expansion to allow collections from beneath the graft to escape.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1095"></a>2. Split-thickness grafts may contain some lymphatics; however, full-thickness grafts have a full complement of lymphatics.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1100"></a>3. Split-thickness grafts are more likely to take (become vascularized) but tend to contract and become brittle when mature, whereas full-thickness grafts have more difficulty becoming vascularized but are less likely to contract and are more durable when mature.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1105"></a>4. Tunica vaginalis grafts result in aneurysmal dilatation when they are used for large defects.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1110"></a>5. The superficial dorsal penile vein usually drains to the left saphenous vein; the deep dorsal and circumflex veins lying beneath the Buck fascia drain to the periprostatic plexus.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1115"></a>6. The Buck fascia is adjacent to the deep structures of the penis; the dartos fascia is next to the skin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1120"></a>7. LS is a disease of the skin and may involve large portions of the genital skin; therefore, using the genital skin for reconstruction may result in recurrence of the disease. Oral mucosal grafting has emerged as a better tissue in patients with LS–associated urethral strictures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1125"></a>8. LS may be a premalignant lesion and often results in meatal stenosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1130"></a>9. A spontaneous urethral fistula or unexplained periurethral abscess may be the harbinger of a urethral carcinoma.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1135"></a>10. Circumcision provides protection for heterosexual men in areas of endemic HIV; it reduces the risk of acquiring herpes simplex type 2, papillomavirus, and genital ulcer disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1140"></a>11. Cellulitis may be a problem in patients who have genital lymphedema.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1145"></a>12. As a general rule in the urethra, flaps are best suited for distal reconstruction, grafts for proximal reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1150"></a>13. A urethral stricture involves the epithelium as well as the corpus spongiosum (spongiofibrosis).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1155"></a>14. For urethral distraction injuries (posterior urethral disruptions), an aligning catheter, at the very worst, facilitates subsequent reconstruction and, at best, may leave the patient with an endoscopically manageable urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1160"></a>15. Because paraphimosis tends to recur, a dorsal slit or circumcision should be electively planned.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1165"></a>16. For urethral reconstruction an onlay graft or flap has a higher success rate than tabularized grafts.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1170"></a>17. Vesicourethrorectal fistulae are most successfully closed when normal tissue is interposed between the rectum and the bladder/urethra. The gracilis muscle interposition flap is an excellent tissue to interpose and, when used, has a high success rate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1175"></a>18. Curvature of the penis in patients with Peyronie disease who require repair are best managed with corporal plication techniques and not grafting.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1180"></a>19. The corpora cavernosa are not separate structures but constitute a single space with free communication through an incompetent midline septum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1185"></a>20. Meatal stenosis in the male child appears to be a consequence of circumcision.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1190"></a>21. It is imperative to completely evaluate the urethra proximal and distal to a stricture with endoscopy and bougienage during surgery, to ensure that all of the involved urethra is included in the reconstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1195"></a>22. The curative success rate of internal urethrotomy is 29% to 30% for all patients. The strictures that respond best to internal urethrotomy are strictures of the bulbous urethra that are less than 1.5 cm in length and are not associated with the dense or deep spongiofibrosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1200"></a>23. The best results for primary reanastomosis are achieved when the following technical points are observed: (1) the area of the fibrosis is totally excised; (2) the urethral anastomosis is widely spatulated, creating a large ovoid anastomosis; (3) the anastomosis is tension free; and (4) epithelial apposition is achieved.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1205"></a>24. In complete membranous urethra disruption, the most frequent point of distraction is at the departure of the bulbous urethra from the membranous urethra. The distraction can, however, involve all or any portion of the membranous urethra between the departure of the bulbous urethra and the apex of the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1210"></a>25. Aggressive mobilization of the corpus spongiosum is performed with caution in patients with urethral disruptions because it is thought to have possible ill effects on retrograde blood supply to the urethra.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_313"></span><span id="pagebreak_314"></span><span id="pagebreak_315"></span><span id="pagebreak_316"></span><span id="pagebreak_317"></span><span id="pagebreak_318"></span><span id="pagebreak_319"></span>
</body>
</html>
