<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0077"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">77</div>
<span id="B978032363969900077X"></span>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title">Surgery of Testicular Tumors</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Stephen Riggs, Kris E. Gaston, and Peter E. Clark</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">orchiectomy; retroperitoneal lymph node dissection; surgical technique; testis cancer</div>
</section>
<section>
 
<section>
	<span id="s0010"></span>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch077_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
<div id="p0725"></div>
<div>
 <span id="pagebreak_294"></span><span id="pagebreak_295"></span><span id="pagebreak_296"></span><span id="pagebreak_297"></span>
</div>
<div class="textfl">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="298" id="pagebreak_298"></span>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0840"></a>1. The proper performance of a radical inguinal orchiectomy includes mobilizing the cord 1 to 2 cm proximal to the internal inguinal ring and individually ligating the vas deferens and cord vessels with silk sutures so that the stump may be identified if an RPLND is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0845"></a>2. When an orchiectomy has been performed through the scrotum in patients who have a low-stage seminoma, the radiation portals should be extended to include the ipsilateral groin and scrotum; for those with low-stage nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (NSGCT), the scrotal scar should be excised along with the spermatic cord remnant; and for those who have received a full cycle of platinum-based chemotherapy, only the cord stump need be removed at the time of RPLND.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0850"></a>3. The right testicular lymphatics drain to the interaortocaval lymph nodes followed by paracaval and pericaval nodes. The left testicular lymphatics drain to the periaortic and preaortic lymph nodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0855"></a>4. Contralateral lymphatic flow is more commonly seen in right-sided tumors than left-sided tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0860"></a>5. There is a 20% to 30% incidence of positive nodes in clinical stage I disease and approximately a 25% relapse rate in such patients who are placed on a surveillance protocol.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0865"></a>6. Suprahilar metastases are rare in low-stage NSGCT. Three percent to 23% of patients with positive nodes at RPLND will have extra-template disease. The most common site of residual suprahilar disease is in the retrocrural space.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0870"></a>7. It is extremely important, when performing a primary RPLND, to secure all lymphatic vessels with either clips or ties, particularly in the region of the right renal artery and diaphragmatic crus, to minimize injury to the cisterna chyli, which could result in chylous ascites.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0875"></a>8. In the presence of documented or suspected metastatic disease, a full bilateral dissection should be performed. In selected cases, preservation of individual nerve fibers may be performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0880"></a>9. The anterior split over the vena cava is not likely to damage nerve fibers; however, the anterior split over the aorta risks injury to these fibers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0885"></a>10. The most important nerves to preserve antegrade ejaculation are those arising from the L1 to L4 ganglia. To preserve nerve fibers, a dissection on the aorta should only be performed after the nerve fibers have been identified and isolated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0890"></a>11. There is a sevenfold increase in cardiovascular complications in men treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0895"></a>12. All patients should be given the opportunity to bank sperm before RPLND.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0900"></a>13. In clinical stage I, NSGCT lymphovascular invasion; higher T stage; tumor involvement of the cord, capsule, or scrotum; and a high percentage of embryonal carcinoma are associated with an increased incidence of retroperitoneal relapse. Most relapses occur within the first 2 years and are rare after 5 years. The absence of teratoma in the primary tumor does not preclude its presence in the retroperitoneum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0905"></a>14. Persistently elevated tumor marker levels after orchiectomy require systemic chemotherapy, as the next step is not RPLND.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0910"></a>15. Patients best suited for RPLND are those with clinical stage IIA and low-volume, less than 3-cm ipsilateral disease (stage IIB).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0915"></a>16. Sixty percent of patients with testicular cancer have subnormal pretreatment semen analyses. Sixty-five percent of men on surveillance can impregnate their partner after orchiectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0920"></a>17. Bilateral RPLND is the standard template for patients with pathologic stage II NSGCT.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0925"></a>18. Bleomycin can cause restrictive pulmonary fibrosis with increased collagen deposition and makes the patient highly susceptible to fluid overload.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0930"></a>19. Increased serum concentration of AFP and hCG after primary platinum-based chemotherapy is usually characterized by unresectable viable tumor, and salvage chemotherapy rather than excision of the mass is recommended.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0935"></a>20. After chemotherapy, retroperitoneal masses are composed of necrosis/fibrosis in 40%, teratoma in 45%, and viable GCT in 15%. A residual mass after salvage chemotherapy is composed of viable GCT in 50%, teratoma in 40%, and fibrosis in 10%. The clinical behavior of a teratoma is unpredictable, and complete resection is required.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0940"></a>21. After chemotherapy, RPLND is indicated for NSGCT primary tumors in which the residual mass is larger than 1 cm. RPLND may be eliminated after chemotherapy if there was no evidence of the disease in the retroperitoneum before chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0945"></a>22. Late relapses occur in 2% to 4% of patients, and more than half of late relapses occur beyond 10 years, emphasizing the need for prolonged follow-up.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0950"></a>23. If the aortic wall is stripped of its adventitia, it should be replaced with a synthetic graft because delayed rupture may occur.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0955"></a>24. Tumor involvement of the superior mesenteric artery, celiac axis, or porta hepatis usually precludes resection. After chemotherapy, resection of residual masses should be accompanied by a complete RPLND. The standard bilateral dissection is the prudent approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0960"></a>25. After chemotherapy for seminoma, residual masses very rarely contain teratoma and are extremely difficult technically to remove. Thus a residual mass less than 3 cm should be observed, patients with masses larger than 3 cm should have PET, and if a viable seminoma is noted, then either additional chemotherapy or RPLND is indicated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0965"></a>26. After chemotherapy, spermatogenesis may take 3 years to return to normal.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0970"></a>27. In the setting of complete or near-complete occlusion, routine reconstruction of the vena cava following resection is not required.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0975"></a>28. RPLND histology is a strong predictor of histology at thoracotomy: if necrosis is all that is found in the retroperitoneum, 89% of the time the chest lesions will be necrotic.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0980"></a>29. The ureters provide the anatomic landmark for the lateral border of dissection for the para-aortic and paracaval lymph node packets.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0985"></a>30. There are three paired lumbar arteries located between the renal hilum and the aortic bifurcation in nearly all patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0990"></a>31. Patients having received salvage chemotherapy who demonstrate viable GCT at PC-RPLND, those demonstrating teratoma only at PC-RPLND, and those demonstrating transformation to somatic-type malignancy have not been shown to benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o0995"></a>32. Late relapse in patients with prior receipt of chemotherapy is often composed of yolk sac tumor and tends to be relatively chemorefractory regardless of histology. Thus primary management of resectable disease at late relapse is surgical extirpation.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section><span id="f0010"></span>
</section>
</body>
</html>
