<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0104"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">104</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900104X">Treatment of Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp9910">Ramaprasad Srinivasan, and W. Marston Linehan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">axitinib; bevacizumab; cabozantinib; chromophobe; clear cell; collecting duct; everolimus; FLCN; fumarate hydratase; interleukin-2; levantinib; medullary renal cancer; MET; nivolumab; papillary; pazopanib; RCC; renal cell carcinoma; sorafenib; succinate dehydrogenase; sunitinib; temsirolimus; TFE3; TFEB; VHL</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch104_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0110">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0615"></a>1. Two randomized studies have demonstrated improved survival in carefully selected metastatic RCC patients undergoing cytoreductive nephrectomy followed by cytokine therapy (IFN-α) compared with those receiving cytokine therapy alone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0620"></a>2. Several patient and/or disease characteristics appear to influence outcome; patients with poor performance status, comorbid medical conditions, rapidly progressive disease, presence of brain metastases, and so on, are unlikely to benefit from this approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0625"></a>3. Although several retrospective studies suggested that cytoreductive nephrectomy may be of benefit in the era of VEGFR-targeted therapy, a randomized study failed to demonstrate an advantage in intermediate and poor prognosis patients. These data, however, do not specifically address the utility of nephrectomy in patients with relatively low metastatic burden and other favorable features, who may benefit from this approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0630"></a>4. It is our current practice to offer cytoreductive nephrectomy to well-selected patients with metastatic clear cell RCC</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0635"></a>5. Resection of isolated metastatic lesions is appropriate in selected patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0640"></a>6. Several retrospective studies have suggested that patients undergoing complete resection of isolated metastatic foci may experience long disease-free intervals, with median overall survival rates of 35% to 50% in some reports.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0645"></a>7. Several factors are associated with an improved outcome after metastasectomy, including complete resection, presence of solitary metastatic lesions, age younger than 60 years, smaller tumor size, presence of pulmonary metastases, and development of metachronous metastatic disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0650"></a>8. There are no prospective, randomized studies demonstrating a favorable outcome with metastasectomy. It is therefore possible that the favorable outcome after resection of limited metastatic disease may be a reflection of patient selection bias, differences in tumor biology and natural history, or other confounding factors not related to resection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0655"></a>9. In some patients with advanced RCC, cytoreductive nephrectomy may help alleviate symptoms related to the primary tumor (e.g., intractable pain, hematuria) or paraneoplastic manifestations.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0660"></a>10. However, nonsurgical options are often effective in palliating symptoms associated with RCC; cytoreductive nephrectomy is hence infrequently performed with purely palliative intent.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0665"></a>11. Resection of metastatic lesions (often in combination with radiation or systemic therapy) is sometimes performed for relief of symptoms or to prevent life-threatening or disabling sequelae.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_402"></span><span id="pagebreak_403"></span>
</body>
</html>
