<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0094"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">94</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900094X">Surgical Management for Upper Urinary Tract Calculi</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp9910">Brian R. Matlaga</div>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Amy E. Krambeck</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">calculi; kidney; lithotripsy; nephrolithotomy; percutaneous; ureteroscopy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch094_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0185">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1165"></a>1. EHL produces a hydraulic shockwave and cavitation bubble. It may be used in normal saline solutions.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1170"></a>2. Holmium laser lithotripsy causes stone vaporization by a photothermal mechanism, and when it is used, the stone should be painted.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1175"></a>3. Cyanide may be produced when the holmium laser is used to fragment uric acid calculi. To date, no untoward effects due to this have been reported.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1180"></a>4. Ultrasound breaks the stone by causing the stone to resonate at a high frequency. Considerable heat may develop at the interface.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1185"></a>5. Stone comminution occurs by two basic mechanisms: mechanical stresses produced by the incident shockwave and collapse of cavitation bubbles adjacent to the surface of the stone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1190"></a>6. The entire ureter can be more easily accessed in the female with a rigid ureteroscope.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1195"></a>7. For uncomplicated ureteroscopies, a ureteral stent may be safely omitted.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1200"></a>8. There is a 3% to 6% incidence of ureteral stricture following ureteroscopy; therefore, follow-up imaging should be performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1205"></a>9. Struvite stones must be removed completely to minimize the risk of continued urea-splitting bacteriuria.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1210"></a>10. Cystine and brushite are the stones most resistant to SWL, followed by calcium oxalate monohydrate. Next, in descending order, are hydroxyapatite, struvite, calcium oxalate dihydrate, and uric acid stones.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1215"></a>11. When anticoagulation cannot be temporarily discontinued, the use of ureteroscopy in combination with holmium laser lithotripsy is preferred.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1220"></a>12. The majority of ureteral stones less than 5 mm will pass spontaneously.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1225"></a>13. There are three primary types of shockwave generators: electrohydraulic (Spark Gap), electromagnetic, and piezoelectric. Microexplosive generators have also been produced but have not gained mainstream acceptance.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1230"></a>14. Patients with existing hypertension are at increased risk for the development of perinephric hematomas as a consequence of SWL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1235"></a>15. Cephalosporins are the most appropriately used antibiotics for prophylaxis of surgical procedures in noninfected stone cases, because the most common secondarily infecting organism is <span class="italic">S. epidermidis.</span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1240"></a>16. Transvaginal ultrasonography may be used in the pregnant female to observe the lower ureters.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1245"></a>17. Fifty percent to 80% of pregnant patients will spontaneously pass the calculus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1250"></a>18. Pregnancy induces a state of absorptive hypercalciuria and mild hyperuricosuria that is offset by increased excretion of urinary inhibitors such as citrate and magnesium, as well as increased urinary output. The metabolic changes in pregnancy do not influence the rate of new stone occurrence. However, paradoxically, it has been suggested that metabolic alterations in urine may contribute to accelerated encrustation of stents during pregnancy.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_362"></span><span id="pagebreak_363"></span><span id="pagebreak_364"></span>
</body>
</html>
