<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0020"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">20</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000203">Embryology of the Human Genitourinary Tract</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Laurence S. Baskin, and Gerald Cunha</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder; embryology; external genitalia; gonads; human genitourinary tract; prostate; ureters and kidneys; uterus; vagina</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch020_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0105">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0520"></a>1. The glomerulus, proximal tubule, loop of Henle, and distal tubule are derived from the metanephric mesenchyme.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0525"></a>2. The remainder of the collecting system is formed from the ureteric bud.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0530"></a>3. The Weigert-Meyer rule states that the most lateral and cephalad ureteric orifice arises from the lower pole and may demonstrate reflux whereas the most medial and caudad orifice drains the upper pole and may be associated with a ureterocele.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0535"></a>4. Sertoli cells produce müllerian-inhibiting substance, which causes regression of the müllerian ducts.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0540"></a>5. Testosterone is secreted by the Leydig cells and stimulates the wolffian ducts to form the vas deferens and seminal vesicles.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0545"></a>6. The prostate and bulbourethral glands develop from the urogenital sinus.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0550"></a>7. Circulating androgens play a critical role in the development of the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0555"></a>8. When 5α-reductase is deficient, prostatic growth and development is severely compromised.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0560"></a>9. In the absence of müllerian-inhibiting substance and androgens, the wolffian ducts degenerate and the müllerian ducts give rise to the fallopian tubes, uterus, and upper two-thirds of the vagina.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0565"></a>10. Boys with spina bifida have a 23% incidence of cryptorchidism.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0570"></a>11. If the <span class="italic">SRY</span> gene complex is translocated to an X chromosome, an XX female will have male characteristics.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0575"></a>12. The renin-angiotensin system is important for the normal development and growth of the kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0580"></a>13. Circulating androgens and the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) are critical to the normal development of the prostate and male external genitalia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0585"></a>14. A defect in the WT1 gene may result in hypospadias, cryptorchidism, and ambiguous genitalia (disorders of sex development).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0590"></a>15. Defects in the androgen receptor result in abnormal masculinization of the external genitalia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0595"></a>16. Abdominal pressure appears to be important for the transit of the testis through the inguinal canal and into the scrotum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0600"></a>17. The embryonic kidneys are, in order of their appearance, the pronephros, the mesonephros, and the metanephros. The first two kidneys regress in utero, and the third becomes the permanent kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0605"></a>18. Older, more differentiated nephrons are located in the inner part of the kidney near the juxtamedullary region.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0610"></a>19. Primordial germ cells migrate from the yolk sac along the dorsal mesentery to populate the mesenchyme of the posterior body wall near the 10th thoracic level.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0615"></a>20. Sertoli cells begin their differentiation in response to the SRY (sex-determining region of the Y chromosome); they begin to secrete MIS, which causes the paramesonephric (müllerian) ducts to regress.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0620"></a>21. Müllerian duct remnants in the male include the prostatic utricle and the appendix testis.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_58"></span><span id="pagebreak_59"></span>
</body>
</html>
