<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0107"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">107</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001075">Surgery of the Adrenal Glands</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Sey Kiat Lim, and Koon Ho Rha</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">adrenalectomy; adrenal gland; ablative therapy; laparoscopic; open; operative techniques; partial adrenalectomy; robot-assisted; surgery</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch107_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0430"></a>1. The right adrenal vein enters the inferior vena cava in a posterior lateral position. When torn, the vena cava must be rotated to gain access to suture the defect.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0435"></a>2. Local regional recurrence in the adrenal cortical carcinoma occurs in 60% of cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0440"></a>3. It is important to note that the tail of the pancreas can lie adjacent to the upper pole of the left kidney and adrenal. Care must be taken not to injure this organ.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0445"></a>4. In a thoracoabdominal incision, the diaphragm should not be incised radially but, rather, circumferentially because the former results in a phrenic nerve injury with an atonic diaphragm lateral to the incision.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0450"></a>5. An Addisonian crisis is most commonly seen after excision of an adrenal tumor that secretes cortisol as the contralateral adrenal is suppressed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0455"></a>6. In removing large adrenal masses, it is important to be careful not to ligate an upper pole renal artery branch because this will result in an infarction of the renal segment that is served by this artery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0460"></a>7. The most common sites from which metastases occur to the adrenal are lung, breast, kidney, and melanoma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0465"></a>8. Before resecting aldosterone-secreting tumors, consideration should be given to preoperative administration of spironolactone and correction of hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia if they exist.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0470"></a>9. Twenty-five percent of adrenal lesions greater than 6 cm are adrenal cortical carcinomas, and these larger lesions should be resected. The risk of malignancy in lesions less than 4 cm is 2%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0475"></a>10. Preoperative sympatholytic therapy with α-adrenergic blockers for at least 2 weeks before surgery in patients with a pheochromocytoma is necessary because it restores vascular volume and helps in both hemodynamic and glucose control. If a β blocker is necessary to control cardiac arrhythmias, it should be begun after full alpha blockade has been achieved.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_414"></span><span id="pagebreak_415"></span>
</body>
</html>
