<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0136"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">136</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001361">Management Strategies for Non–Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer (Ta, T1, and CIS)</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Joseph Zabell, and Badrinath Konety</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bacillus Calmette-Guérin; cystoscopy; intravesical therapy; mitomycin C; non–muscle-invasive bladder cancer; urinary markers</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>

    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch136_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0140">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0815"></a>1. Malignant tumors are classified as low grade or high grade, regardless of invasion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0820"></a>2. High- and low-grade cancers are often considered essentially separate diseases based on disparate genetic development, biologic behavior, and management strategies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0825"></a>3. The most important risk factor for progression is grade.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0830"></a>4. CIS is a precursor as well as a risk factor for progression, invasion, and metastasis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0835"></a>5. Papillary tumors with orderly cellular arrangement, minimal architectural abnormalities, and minimal nuclear atypia are designated papillary urothelial neoplasm of low malignant potential (PUNLMP).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0840"></a>6. TURBT is performed both to remove all visible tumors and provide specimens for pathologic examination to determine stage and grade.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0845"></a>7. Repeat resection within 2 to 6 weeks is usually indicated in patients with high-grade disease, especially if no muscle was present in the initial TURBT.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0850"></a>8. All suspicious lesions should be sampled, but random biopsies are not required in low-risk patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0855"></a>9. Office-based fulguration and observation may be applied to certain low-risk patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0860"></a>10. Fluorescence cystoscopy with 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) derivatives and narrow-band imaging improves the ability to visualize inconspicuous tumors and could reduce short- and long-term recurrence rates after TUR.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0865"></a>11. Single-dose intravesical chemotherapy administered within 6 hours of resection reduces recurrence of low-risk tumors, with significant impact in the setting of initial presentation of solitary low-grade papillary tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0870"></a>12. The incremental benefit in patients with recurrent or multiple tumors is limited.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0875"></a>13. No benefit has been found in patients with high-grade disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0880"></a>14. Intravesical BCG has higher efficacy and side effects compared to intravesical chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0885"></a>15. BCG should be used cautiously for patients with low-risk disease because of concern about side effects.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0890"></a>16. BCG is the only agent shown to delay or reduce high-grade tumor progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0895"></a>17. The optimal dose and the treatment schedule for BCG are undetermined, but results are better with maintenance therapy, if tolerated.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0900"></a>18. BCG is contraindicated in the setting of a disrupted urothelium because of the risk of intravasation and BCG sepsis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0905"></a>19. Intravesical chemotherapy has a clear impact on tumor recurrence when immediately instilled after TURBT and in the adjuvant setting. There is no clear evidence of an impact on progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0910"></a>20. Combinations of various chemotherapeutic agents and chemotherapy combined with BCG have not demonstrated major benefit combined with single-agent treatment with the exception of interferon.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0915"></a>21. In general, side effects of chemotherapy tend to be less common and less severe than those for BCG, but BCG is more efficacious.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0920"></a>22. Combination intravesical chemotherapy may have a role in treating BCG-refractory cancers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0925"></a>23. Patients who experience failure of an initial course of intravesical therapy after TURBT are at high risk for recurrence or progression.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0930"></a>24. Failure of initial chemotherapy or BCG is most appropriately treated with a subsequent course of BCG because its efficacy in this setting is significantly greater than that of chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0935"></a>25. Following failure of a second course of intravesical therapy, patients can be enrolled in clinical trials of new agents, consider combination intravesical therapy, or proceed to cystectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0940"></a>26. Patients at high risk for progression should be considered for cystectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0945"></a>27. Failure to respond to an initial course of intravesical therapy is occasion to reconsider cystectomy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0950"></a>28. Failure to respond to a second course is an indication for immediate cystectomy unless contraindicated or the patient chooses to pursue clinical trials or newer proven intravesical options if evidence builds for their use.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0955"></a>29. Cystoscopy is the hallmark of surveillance. The surveillance schedule should be individualized on the basis of risk stratification of the most recently resected tumor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0960"></a>30. A number of tumor markers have shown the ability to improve the sensitivity of cytology, but specificity is lower for most.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0965"></a>31. Increased fluids, smoking cessation, and a low-fat diet are recommended.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition</span>, on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_527"></span><span id="pagebreak_528"></span><span id="pagebreak_529"></span>
</body>
</html>
