<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0066"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">66</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000665">Male Infertility</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Craig S. Niederberger, Samuel J. Ohlander, and Rodrigo L. Pagani</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">assisted reproduction; infertility; semen analysis; sperm; sperm cryopreservation</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch066_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0215">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1350"></a>1. Human spermatogenesis requires 64 days to complete and 5 to 10 days of epididymal transit time.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1355"></a>2. 5-α reductase inhibitors have a limited effect on spermatogenesis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1360"></a>3. Cannabis decreases plasma testosterone; heavy alcohol use increases the conversion of testosterone to estradiol.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1365"></a>4. DNA damage can be detected up to 2 years following chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1370"></a>5. Following torsion of the testis, 11% of men develop antisperm antibodies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1375"></a>6. Testis size correlates well with sperm production.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1380"></a>7. Patients with bilateral absence of the vas should be evaluated for a cystic fibrosis gene mutation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1385"></a>8. Varicoceles are present in 15% of the adult population but occur in 30% to 50% of men presenting with fertility problems.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1390"></a>9. Normal semen volume is between 1 and 5 mL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1395"></a>10. Progressive motility should be between 32% and 63%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1400"></a>11. Antisperm antibodies are associated with vasectomy, testes trauma, orchitis, cryptorchidism, testis cancer, and varicocele.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1405"></a>12. Genetic testing should be considered in those with spermatogenic dysfunction causing azoospermia and in those with sperm densities of less than 5 million/mL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1410"></a>13. The AZF factor is found on the long arm of the Y chromosome; the DAZ genes are located in the AZFc region. A microdeletion of the AZFc region may result in spermatogenic impairment but not necessarily absence of spermatogenesis, but a microdeletion of the AZFa and AZFb regions generally result in absence of spermatogenesis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1415"></a>14. Spermatogenesis may be highly focal in men with azoospermia so that a random biopsy may miss areas of sperm production.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1420"></a>15. Cumulative pregnancy rates in a well-conducted study were 38% at one cycle, 68% at three cycles, 81% at six cycles, and 92% at 12 cycles.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1425"></a>16. Female fecundity declines precipitously after age 35 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1430"></a>17. Limited seminal concentrations of the majority of bacteria, including <span class="italic">E. coli</span>, have minimal or no effects on sperm motility in vivo.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1435"></a>18. If the FSH assay result is 7.6 IU/L or less and the testis long axis is greater than 4.6 cm, the probability of obstruction is 96%. Conversely, if the FSH value is greater than 7.6 IU/L and the testis long axis 4.6 cm or less, the probability that azoospermia is due to spermatogenic dysfunction is 89%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1440"></a>19. A sperm concentration of 13.5 million/mL has been found to be the lower parameter below which IUI success is unlikely, and 48.0 million/mL is identified as the upper parameter above which IUI outcomes are favorable.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1445"></a>20. A single day of abstinence is optimal for assessing bulk seminal parameters.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1450"></a>21. The differential diagnosis of seminal hypovolemia includes retrograde ejaculation, ejaculatory ductal obstruction, and accessory sex gland hypoplasia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1455"></a>22. Leukocytes and immature germ cells are not differentiable with light microscopy. A simple stain such as Papanicolaou allows the two to be distinguished.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1460"></a>23. Direct measures of sperm DNA fragmentation include the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling, or TUNEL.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1465"></a>24. To simulate incubational in vitro fertilization, human sperm are incubated with denuded hamster ova in the sperm penetration assay, or SPA.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o1470"></a>25. In globozoospermia, the sperm lack acrosomal caps, and sperm heads are rendered spheric rather than ovoid. Without the acrosome, fertilization with sperm in the natural setting or with incubational in vitro fertilization will not be successful.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o1475"></a>26. Klinefelter syndrome is the most common genetic cause of male infertility.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o1480"></a>27. Male infertility associated with androgen receptor insensitivity is characterized by increased testosterone, increased estradiol, increased LH to variable degrees, and typical FSH levels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o1485"></a>28. Solitary right varicoceles are rare. Should one be of abrupt onset, renal pathology such as tumor should be considered.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_243"></span><span id="pagebreak_244"></span><span id="pagebreak_245"></span><span id="pagebreak_246"></span>
</footer>
</body>
</html>
