<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0108"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">108</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001087">Surgical, Radiographic, and Endoscopic Anatomy of the Female Pelvis</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Priya Padmanabhan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">anatomy; endoscopic anatomy; female pelvis; radiographic anatomy; surgical anatomy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch108_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0120">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0710"></a>1. The pelvic inlet faces anteriorly, allowing pressure of the intra-abdominal and intrapelvic contents to be directed to the bony pelvis, rather than the muscles and the fascia. The bony pelvis should be visualized in the supine position.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0715"></a>2. The arcus tendinous fascia pelvis (ATFP) and arcus tendinous levator ani (ATLA) are two distinct structures, serving as key players in fascial attachment. ATFP is the main point for fascial attachment. The levator ani muscles attach to the ATFP and cover the obturator internus.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0720"></a>3. The ischial spine and sacrospinous ligament are important landmarks during vault suspension to avoid injury to the sacral plexus and pudendal nerve.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0725"></a>4. The sustained resting tone of the pelvic floor muscles (pubococcygeus, puborectalis, and iliococcygeus) support pelvic viscera, resists increases in intra-abdominal pressure, and is crucial in passive control of urinary and fecal continence.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0730"></a>5. Translabial ultrasound is useful for visualization of transvaginal mesh, urethral bulking agents, and urethral implants.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0735"></a>6. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most comprehensive and conclusive imaging modality available to image the female pelvis without the use of radiation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0740"></a>7. T2-weighted MRI is the best imaging technique to visualize and localize urethral diverticula and to differentiate them from other benign vaginal masses.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_417"></span><span id="pagebreak_418"></span>
</body>
</html>
