<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0105"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">105</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001051">Surgical and Radiographic Anatomy of the Adrenals</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Ravi Munver, and John Stites</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">adrenal gland; radiographic anatomy; surgical anatomy</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch105_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0060">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0290"></a>1. The adrenals are enclosed within the Gerota fascia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0295"></a>2. The right adrenal vein is short and enters the vena cava posterolaterally.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0300"></a>3. Adrenal rests are found in proximity to the celiac axis and along the path of gonadal descent. In patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia, adrenal rests along the spermatic cord may become quite large.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0305"></a>4. The right kidney is typically located lower in the retroperitoneum than the left kidney. The right adrenal gland lies more superiorly in the retroperitoneum than the left adrenal gland. Both adrenal glands are in close proximity to the crus of the diaphragm.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0310"></a>5. In cases of renal ectopia, the adrenal gland is usually found in approximately its normal anatomic position.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0315"></a>6. The zona glomerulosa produces aldosterone, the zona fasciculata produces glucocorticoids, and the zona reticularis produces sex steroids.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0320"></a>7. The production of androgen by the zona reticularis is regulated by pituitary release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0325"></a>8. Normal adrenal tissue has a density of less than or equal to 10 Hounsfield units (HU) on noncontrast CT imaging.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_405"></span>
</body>
</html>
