<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0144"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">144</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001440">Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle0010">Etiology, Pathophysiology, Epidemiology, and Natural History</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Douglas W. Strand</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">benign prostatic hyperplasia; epidemiology; lower urinary tract symptoms; natural history; pathophysiology; progression; prostate surgery; urinary retention</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_558"></span><span id="pagebreak_559"></span>

<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <div>
        <div>


    

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch144_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>

</div>







    
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0090">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0500"></a>1. BPH is characterized by an increased number of epithelial and stromal cells, not an increase in their size.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0505"></a>2. Androgens are required for normal cell proliferation and differentiation and actively inhibit cell death.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0510"></a>3. Serum estrogen levels increase in men with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0515"></a>4. Early periurethral nodules are stromal; transition zone proliferation is glandular.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0520"></a>5. Prostatic stroma represents 40% of the gland. Smooth muscle is a prominent component of the stroma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0525"></a>6. Autonomic system overactivity may contribute to lower urinary tract symptoms in men with BPH; the alpha 1a receptor is the most abundant form in the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0530"></a>7. Symptoms that use the AUA Symptom Index are classified as mild if the score is 0 to 7, moderate if it is 8 to 19, and severe if it is 20 to 35. A change of 3 points or more from time to time is subjectively discernible.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0535"></a>8. Men and women experience a decrease in maximum urinary flow rate as they age.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0540"></a>9. Bladder fibrosis is seen in both sexes with advancing age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0545"></a>10. After spontaneous acute urinary retention (AUR), 15% of patients will have another episode and three fourths will undergo surgery; after precipitated AUR, 9% will have another episode and 26% will undergo surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0550"></a>11. A significant portion of male lower urinary tract symptoms is related to age-related detrusor dysfunction and other conditions unrelated to the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0555"></a>12. DHT, the most potent androgen in the prostate, and androgen receptors remain high with age.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0560"></a>13. Androgen withdrawal results in apoptosis of prostate cells.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0565"></a>14. Estrogen receptors are found in the prostate and may play a role in BPH.<a id="pg560"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="560" id="pagebreak_560"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0570"></a>15. The size of the prostate does not correlate with the degree of obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0575"></a>16. Trabeculation is due to an increase in detrusor collagen.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0580"></a>17. A maximum flow rate less than 10 mL/sec in the male indicates a high probability of obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0585"></a>18. There is no relationship between vasectomy and BPH; however, there is a positive relationship between lack of physical activity, obesity, BMI, and LUTS/BPH.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0590"></a>19. Hydronephrosis is found in 7.6% of patients having surgery for BPH, one third of whom have renal insufficiency.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0595"></a>20. Some cases of BPH are familial, with autosomal dominant being the most likely inheritance pattern. Patients with familial BPH tend to have larger glands than those with sporadic BPH.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0600"></a>21. Cold medications containing α-sympathomimetics tend to exacerbate lower urinary tract symptoms by the expected effect on the smooth muscle of the bladder outlet.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0605"></a>22. A clinically useful correlation exists between total and transition zone prostate volume and serum PSA in men with BPH.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
