<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0063"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">63</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B978032363969900063X">Surgical, Radiographic, and Endoscopic Anatomy of the Male Reproductive System</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Parviz K. Kavoussi</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">anatomy; ejaculatory duct; epididymis; penis; prostate; scrotum; seminal vesicle; testicle; urethra; vas deferens</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch063_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0100">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0570"></a>1. The normal testicle measures 2.5 × 3 × 4 cm and has a volume of 15 to 25 mL.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0575"></a>2. Both ends of the seminiferous tubules end in the rete testis.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0580"></a>3. Although there are three arteries that supply the testis, the testicular artery is the most important, and its ligation may result in testicular atrophy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0585"></a>4. The testis, epididymis, vas, and seminal vesicles are innervated by the autonomic system, which is made up of afferent and efferent nerves.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0590"></a>5. The anatomic zones of the prostate include the transition zone, which is the site of benign prostatic hyperplasia; the central zone, which contains the ejaculatory ducts (glands arising in this zone are thought to be derived from the wolffian duct, unlike the glands in the rest of the prostate); the peripheral zone, which contains 70% of the glandular epithelium and where 70% of prostate cancers occur; and the anterior zone, which is made up of fibromuscular stroma.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0595"></a>6. Seventy percent of the prostate is made up of glandular tissue, and 30% is fibromuscular tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0600"></a>7. A permeable septum separates the corpora cavernosa, one from the other, and allows for free communication between the vascular spaces of the corpora bodies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0605"></a>8. Scrotal lymphatics do not cross the midline and drain into the ipsilateral groin, unlike the penis, where the lymphatics cross over, allowing drainage to either groin irrespective of the side of the lesion.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0610"></a>9. The rete testis forms 12 to 20 efferent ductules and passes into the largest portion of epididymis, the caput.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0615"></a>10. The tunica albuginea is composed of smooth muscle cells that pass through collagenous tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0620"></a>11. The genital branch of the genitofemoral nerve follows the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal, supplies the cremaster muscle, and supplies sensation to the anterior scrotum.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0625"></a>12. There are extremely strong tight junctions between Sertoli cells, which provide an intracellular barrier that allows for spermatogenesis in an immune-privileged site.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0630"></a>13. There is no true prostatic capsule at the apex of the prostate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0635"></a>14. The penis, scrotum, and perineum drain into the inguinal lymph nodes.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0640"></a>15. The urethral mucosa that traverses the glans penis is squamous epithelium.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_234"></span><span id="pagebreak_235"></span>
</body>
</html>
