<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0146"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">146</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001464">Minimally Invasive and Endoscopic Management of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Sevann Helo, R. Charles Welliver Jr. , and Kevin T. McVary</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">Benign prostatic hyperplasia; BPH; convective radiofrequency water vapor thermal therapy; lower urinary tract symptoms; LUTS; minimally invasive treatments; MIST; prostatic urethral lift; PUL; transurethral resection of the prostate; TURP</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>

<div>

<div>
    <div>

<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch146_assessments.xhtml" height="610"></iframe>

</div>



<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0080">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0420"></a>1. The incorporation of medical management and new technologies has changed which treatment options are selected for the treatment of LUTS/BPH.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0425"></a>2. LASER based treatments are increasingly used although multiple factors have affected acceptance. Multiple factors have changed the usual patient that advances to surgical management of BPH in the preceding decades. Increasingly these are more challenging clinical scenarios.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0430"></a>3. Patients should generally be trialed on medical management before proceeding to surgical intervention. Patients failing medical management may be considered for surgical therapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0435"></a>4. Perioperative antibiotic coverage should not be neglected as serious adverse outcomes still occur.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0440"></a>5. Both patient and physician factors should be considered when selecting the appropriate surgical treatment for patients.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0445"></a>6. PUL is an option for patients with LUTS/BPH provided prostate volume &lt;80 g when the clinician has verified the absence of a middle lobe.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0450"></a>7. Patients electing PUL or water vapor thermal ablation therapy should be warned that long-term durability is uncertain, though long-term uncontrolled data is available.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0455"></a>8. In the appropriate patients, PUL and water vapor thermal ablation therapy are less likely to impact erection and ejaculation than conventional therapies.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0460"></a>9. LASER treatments are the fastest growing option in treatment of LUTS/BPH but should be used as part of a “culture of safety” in the operating room.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0465"></a>10. HoLEP is a very effective treatment option with excellent results that are often comparable to those historically seen with open prostatectomy. There is a significant learning curve associated with the procedure and catastrophic complications (mostly due to the morcellator) have been observed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0470"></a>11. Photoselective vaporization of the prostate is a growing and very safe treatment option for BPH/LUTS. Results in patients on anti-coagulation have been encouraging.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0475"></a>12. Thulium is the newest addition to the LASER family and has some theoretical advantages although scientific data is lacking.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_567"></span><span id="pagebreak_568"></span>
</body>
</html>
