<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0098"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">98</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000987">Urothelial Tumors of the Upper Urinary Tract and Ureter</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Panagiotis Kallidonis, and Evangelos Liatsikos</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">transitional cell carcinoma; upper urinary tract; ureteral cancer renal pelvis cancer; urothelial carcinoma; UTUC</div>
</section><span id="pagebreak_385"></span>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch098_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
</div>
<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0090">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0500"></a>1. Upper urinary tract carcinomas comprise only 5% of the urothelial cancers.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0505"></a>2. The highest incidence is observed in individuals age 70 to 90 years in the Balkan countries, where the UTUC represents the 40% of all renal neoplasms.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0510"></a>3. Multifocal presence of UTUC is diagnosed in 10% to 20% of the cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0515"></a>4. Concurrent bladder cancer is diagnosed in 17% of the cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0520"></a>5. UTUCs are twice as frequent in men as in women.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0525"></a>6. Familial/hereditary UTUCs are linked to hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal carcinoma syndrome (Lynch syndrome).</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0530"></a>7. Tobacco increases the relative risk for UTUC from 2.5 to 7.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0535"></a>8. UTUC “amino tumors” were related to occupational exposure to carcinogenic aromatic amines.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0540"></a>9. Balkan nephropathy is observed as a familial not inherited condition related to the dietary exposure to aristocholic acid.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0545"></a>10. Patients with pelvic and ureteral tumors have been reported to have a history of analgesic abuse in 22% and 11% of the cases, respectively.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0550"></a>11. The excess of inorganic arsenic in drinking water from artesian wells creates a significant risk for UTUC.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0555"></a>12. Urothelial carcinomas represent &gt;90% of the upper urinary tract tumors. Pure nonurothelial upper urinary tract cancers are rare conditions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0560"></a>13. Variants of urothelial cancer are encountered in approximately 25% of all urothelial cancers.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0565"></a>14. Papillomas, inverted papillomas, and Brunn’s nests are usually benign lesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0570"></a>15. UTUC develops through a gradual progression of hyperplasia to dysplasia and eventually CIS in a significant proportion of the UTUC cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0575"></a>16. CIS is difficult to diagnose with significant morphological variations.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0580"></a>17. The muscle invasion or invasion to the renal parenchyma or the surrounding adventitia is more likely to take place on the upper tract.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0585"></a>18. Localized disease: hematuria, dysuria, and flank pain.<a id="pg386"></a>
</li>
<li>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="386" id="pagebreak_386"></span>
</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0590"></a>19. Advanced disease: flank or abdominal mass, weight loss, anorexia, bone pain.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0595"></a>20. Cystoscopy should always be performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0600"></a>21. Flexible ureteroscopy with biopsy is a key approach for diagnosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0605"></a>22. Computed tomography urography has the highest diagnostic accuracy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0610"></a>23. Urine collection or washing of the ureter with a ureteral catheter could provide the most accurate cytologic results.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0615"></a>24. Ureteral tumors are in the distal ureter in 70% of cases, midureter in 25% of cases, and upper ureter in 5% of cases. Bilateral disease occurs in 3% to 5% of cases.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0620"></a>25. Prognosis for recurrence after radical nephroureterectomy is related to the location of the tumor and stage.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0625"></a>26. The recurrence rate is 2% to 4%, with an interval of 17 to 170 months.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0630"></a>27. Bladder recurrence occurs in 15% to 75 % of cases within 5 years.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0150">
<a id="o0635"></a>28. CIS: higher incidence of bilateral and multifocal disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0155">
<a id="o0640"></a>29. Disease spread: direct expansion of the tumor, lymphatics, and blood stream.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0160">
<a id="o0645"></a>30. The TNM classification and staging system. The 2004/2016 WHO grading classification.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0165">
<a id="o0650"></a>31. Age alone should not prevent a curable approach.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0170">
<a id="o0655"></a>32. Ureteral and/or multifocal tumors have a worse prognosis than renal pelvic tumors.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0175">
<a id="o0660"></a>33. Muscle-invasive tumors have poor prognosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0180">
<a id="o0665"></a>34. Positive regional LNs have poor survival prognosis.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0185">
<a id="o0670"></a>35. Lymphovascular invasion is a predictor of disease recurrence and survival.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
