<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0040"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">40</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000409">Pathophysiology of Urinary Tract Obstruction</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Craig A. Peters, and Kirstan K. Meldrum</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">congenital urinary obstruction; hydronephrosisrenal dysplasia; renal fibrosis; urinary tract obstruction</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <div>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch040_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</div>
</section>
<section>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0065">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0325"></a>1. A damaged kidney does not have the functional reserve to maintain normal renal function over time as the child grows. Thus, with time, the creatinine concentration will rise in patients who have no functional reserve in their nephron mass.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0330"></a>2. Obstructive processes may produce dysplasia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0335"></a>3. In some cases, congenitally obstructed kidneys are smaller. This is not a result of atrophy but of hypoplasia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0340"></a>4. A critical determinant of dysplasia in the kidney is complete obstruction early in gestation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0345"></a>5. A universal characteristic of obstruction is renal fibrosis with infiltration of the interstitium with extracellular matrix.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0350"></a>6. The frequency with which a post-obstructed kidney has progressive deterioration in renal function is 20%–40%; it does not have the renal reserve of a normal kidney and may have a reduced number and function of nephrons. This results in hyperfiltration resulting in glomerulosclerosis and a progressive decline in renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0355"></a>7. Measures of urinary sodium, chloride, osmolality, and calcium correlate with fetal renal function. When these measures approach serum levels, irreversible damage is suggested.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0360"></a>8. The distinctness of the calyx is helpful in determining the functionality of the obstruction. Thus, no caliectasis suggests a mild to minimal degree of functional obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0365"></a>9. <sup>99m</sup>Tc-Mercaptoacetyltriglycine is generally used for diuretic renography. It is taken up and excreted by the renal tubules relatively rapidly with little glomerular filtration.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0370"></a>10. Though other factors may play a role, if the diuretic renogram shows a T1/2 greater than 20 minutes, the kidney is presumed to be obstructed; if it is less than 10 minutes, it is presumed normal; if it is between 10 and 20 minutes, it is considered indeterminate.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0375"></a>11. Obstruction can be very harmful to the developing kidney, far beyond that seen in the mature kidney. The effects of obstruction may not be reversible owing to alterations in structure and function in the developing kidney that do not occur in the mature kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0380"></a>12. When obstruction results in a growth impairment, the results are fewer nephron units and delayed nephron maturation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0385"></a>13. Angiotensin appears to be a key modulator of the inflammatory response in renal obstruction. It is also an important growth regulator, as well as mediator of fibrosis, and is altered significantly by obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0390"></a>14. Renal renin is increased in the obstructed kidney.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0395"></a>15. Inflammation with interstitial infiltration of lymphocytes is a common finding in postnatal acquired obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0400"></a>16. When renal function appears to decline after relief of obstruction, it is often due to differential growth and functional development rates of the two kidneys, when the affected kidney cannot increase its absolute function as rapidly as the contralateral intact kidney. This produces a progressive differential functional uptake on nuclear imaging that gives the impression of functional loss that is relative and not absolute.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0405"></a>17. In contrast to acquired obstruction, congenital obstruction is not characterized by a significant inflammatory infiltrate, except when complicated by infection.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_139"></span>
</body>
</html>
