<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0068"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">68</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000689">Physiology of Penile Erection and Pathophysiology of Erectile Dysfunction</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Alan W. Shindel, and Tom F. Lue</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">erectile dysfunction; erection; men; penis; sexual dysfunction</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch068_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0105">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0605"></a>1. Penile erection is dependent on both increased arterial blood flow and coaptation of venous structures.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0610"></a>2. The structure of the corporal bodies of the penis is essential to the erectile process.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0615"></a>3. There is substantial variability in penile vascular anatomy between patients; this may have functional relevance in ED related to pelvic surgery.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0620"></a>4. Neuronal integrity at the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral level are essential to modulation of penile erections.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0625"></a>5. A wide range of neurotransmitters are involved in modulating sexual arousal and penile erection; key examples include dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, nitric oxide, and norepinephrine.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0630"></a>6. Integration of erotic stimuli in the central nervous system is complex; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning has provided new insights on central mechanisms of sexual arousal in men.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0635"></a>7. Relaxation of the cavernous smooth muscle is the key to penile erection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0640"></a>8. NO released by nNOS contained in the terminals of the cavernous nerve initiates the erection process whereas NO released from eNOS in the endothelium helps maintain erection.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0645"></a>9. On entering the smooth muscle cells, NO stimulates the production of cGMP by action on guanylate cyclase.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0650"></a>10. cGMP activates protein kinase G (PKG), which opens potassium channels and closes calcium channels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0655"></a>11. Low cytosolic calcium favors smooth muscle relaxation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0660"></a>12. Smooth muscle tone is restored when cGMP is degraded by phosphodiesterase (PDE) and intracellular calcium levels return to baseline levels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0665"></a>13. Aging is an important contributing factor to ED. The aging process can affect the central regulation of erection, sensory mechanisms, hormonal and neural function, vascular flow, and penile structures.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0670"></a>14. ED is associated with a number of chronic health conditions and may be a sentinel event for serious disease.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0675"></a>15. Diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome are associated with particularly severe ED phenotypes. These disease processes may affect multiple organ systems and cause premature aging of central and peripheral structures and molecules that regulate erectile function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0680"></a>16. Diseases that cause chronic renal failure are associated with ED; renal failure itself may contribute to ED, a condition that may persist despite successful renal transplantation.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0685"></a>17. Drugs most commonly associated with ED include antiandrogens, antidepressants, and antihypertensives.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0690"></a>18. Primary (lifelong) ED may be due to psychogenic causes, congenital arterial insufficiency, penile anomalies, and/or defects of penile vascular structures.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_254"></span><span id="pagebreak_255"></span>
</body>
</html>
