<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0067"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">67</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000677">Surgical Management of Male Infertility</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Marc Goldstein</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">azoospermia; ICSI; IUI; IVF; male infertility; microsurgery; nonobstructive azoospermia; obstruction; sperm aspiration; testis biopsy; transurethral resection of the ejaculatory ducts; varicocele; vasoepididymostomy; vasogram; vasography; vasovasostomy</div>
</section>
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch067_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title0015">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0200">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1270"></a>1. If the vas is transected at two different locations, the intervening segment will likely be fibrose because of lack of blood supply.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1275"></a>2. In repairing a hydrocele, the epididymis is often splayed, and one should leave a generous border around the epididymis to avoid injuring it.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1280"></a>3. When sperm are retrieved before any repair, it is prudent to cryopreserve some for future use, if necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1285"></a>4. Following vasoepididymostomy, 50% to 85% of men will have sperm in the ejaculate; about half of these men will foster a pregnancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1290"></a>5. The indications for TESE are failure to find sperm in the epididymis and nonobstructive azoospermia.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1295"></a>6. During microsurgical TESE, larger tubules are more likely to yield sperm.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1300"></a>7. About 85% of patients following vasovasostomy will have sperm in their ejaculate; a little more than half will foster a pregnancy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1305"></a>8. During vasovasostomy, repeated failure to identify sperm in the vasal fluid usually means epididymal obstruction; however, 15% of men with bilateral absence of sperm in the fluid will have sperm return in the ejaculate.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1310"></a>9. Testis biopsy is indicated in azoospermic men with testes of normal size and consistency, palpable vasa deferentia, and normal serum FSH level.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1315"></a>10. Varicocelectomy results in significant improvement in the findings of semen analysis in 60% to 80% of men. Reported pregnancy rates after varicocelectomy vary from 20% to 60%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1320"></a>11. Men with a positive antisperm antibody assay are always obstructed, and a biopsy is not necessary.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1325"></a>12. A sperm granuloma at the testicular end of the vas predicts presence of sperm in the testicular vasal fluid.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1330"></a>13. Progressive loss of sperm motility followed by decreasing counts indicates stricture.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_248"></span><span id="pagebreak_249"></span><span id="pagebreak_250"></span><span id="pagebreak_251"></span><span id="pagebreak_252"></span>
</body>
</html>
