<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0064"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">64</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000641">Male Reproductive Physiology</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Paul J. Turek</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">azoospermia; ejaculatory duct; epididymis; epigenetics; obstructive azoospermia; prolactin; spermatogenesis; spermatogonial stem cells; spermatozoa; testicle; testicular failure; testosterone; vas deferens</div>
</section>
<<<<<<< HEAD
<span id="s0015"></span><span id="s0010"></span>

=======
<span id="s0010"></span>
>>>>>>> 8ee3cacde821e6d0179ae2862a331e2b878e4f5a
<iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch064_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<span id="s0015"></span>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0135">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0815"></a>1. Normal testosterone and sperm production depends on the pulsatile secretion of hypothalamic GnRH and LH and FSH from the anterior pituitary gland.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0820"></a>2. Regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis hormones occurs primarily through negative feedback.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0825"></a>3. The determination of maleness is derived from the <span class="italic">SRY</span> gene on the Y chromosome. However, developmental genes such as <span class="italic">WNT4</span> and <span class="italic">DAX1</span> are considered antitestis genes and can proactively induce female gonadal development.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0830"></a>4. Changes to the HPG axis with paternal age include lower testosterone levels, blunted axis feedback, and irregular hormone pulsatility.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0835"></a>5. The testis contains 250 m of seminiferous tubules and 700 million Leydig cells in the young adult.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0840"></a>6. Spermatogenesis occurs in stages, cycles, and waves to ensure constant sperm production.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0845"></a>7. Genes on the X as well as the Y chromosome govern spermatogenesis and contribute to male infertility.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0850"></a>8. With paternal age, there are increases in sperm structural chromosomal abnormalities, autosomal dominant mutations, and epigenetic alterations leading to disease in offspring.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0855"></a>9. The epididymis consists of principal cells with absorptive and secretory function, basal cells derived from macrophages, and contractile cells that facilitate sperm transport.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0860"></a>10. During epididymal passage, sperm mature by gaining progressive motility and the ability to bind to and penetrate the egg zona pellucida.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0865"></a>11. Epididymal function is temperature and androgen (mainly DHT) dependent, important considerations for cryptorchidism, varicocele, and 5α-reductase use.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0870"></a>12. The vas deferens is of wolffian (mesonephric) duct origin and serves to transport sperm from the cauda epididymis to the ejaculatory duct during seminal emission.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0875"></a>13. The seminal vesicle and ejaculatory duct unit is analogous to the bladder and urethra and is subject to both physical blockage and functional disorders that result in infertility.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0880"></a>14. Sperm are ciliated cells that possess a “9 + 2” axonemal structure that allows motility.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0885"></a>15. It is estimated that 200 to 300 genes regulate sperm motility.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0890"></a>16. Sperm motility defects, termed ciliary dyskinesias<span class="italic">,</span> are common and can be either correctable (nonspecific flagellar anomalies) or genetic (dysplasia of the fibrous sheath).</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0895"></a>17. Human sperm mtDNA is a circular, histone- and intron-free DNA ring that encodes for respiratory-chain–complex proteins and is very susceptible to mutations.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<<<<<<< HEAD
</section><span id="s0011"></span><span id="s0016"></span><span id="pagebreak_237"></span><span id="pagebreak_238"></span>
=======
</section><span id="s0016"></span><span id="pagebreak_237"></span><span id="pagebreak_238"></span>
>>>>>>> 8ee3cacde821e6d0179ae2862a331e2b878e4f5a
</body>
</html>
