<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0031"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">31</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000318">Exstrophy-Epispadias Complex</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">John P. Gearhart, and Heather N. Di Carlo</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Keywords</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder exstrophy; cloacal exstrophy; epispadias</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0015">Questions</h2>
<div id="p0010"></div>
<div>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch031_assessments.xhtml" height="710"></iframe>
</div>
</section>
<section>


<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0260">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o1690"></a>1. The male-to-female ratio for exstrophy is 2.3:1.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o1695"></a>2. The risk of bladder exstrophy in family members is increased.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o1700"></a>3. Rectal prolapse frequently occurs in untreated exstrophy patients who have widely separated symphyses. It disappears after exstrophy closure.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o1705"></a>4. If rectal prolapse occurs after closure, bladder outlet obstruction should be suspected.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o1710"></a>5. The autonomic nerves are displaced laterally in patients with exstrophy.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o1715"></a>6. Reflux occurs in 100% of patients with exstrophy; inguinal hernias are common.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o1720"></a>7. An ectopic isolated bowel segment may be present in the lower abdominal wall.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o1725"></a>8. Osteotomy is rarely performed in newborns unless the diastasis is greater than 4 cm.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o1730"></a>9. The most reliable predictors of urinary continence are the size of the bladder template at birth and successful primary closure.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o1735"></a>10. Approximately 75% of patients with exstrophy are continent after repair. Continence is defined as 3 hours of dryness.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o1740"></a>11. Cloacal exstrophy consists of exstrophy of the bladder; complete phallic separation; wide diastasis of the pubis; exstrophy of the terminal ileum, which lies between the two halves of the bladder; rudimentary hindgut; imperforate anus; omphalocele; and, not infrequently, associated spinal defects. Spinal defects are not common in patients who have only exstrophy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o1745"></a>12. In adolescents and adults with exstrophy, concerns in the male are length, appearance, and deviation of the penis. In the female, concerns are the appearance of the external genitalia, adequacy of the vaginal opening, and uterine prolapse.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o1750"></a>13. Women with exstrophy have delivered children; however, a frequent complication after pregnancy is cervical and uterine prolapse.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o1755"></a>14. Closure of exstrophy: (1) reshapes the pelvis, (2) redistributes the levator group, and (3) smooths the contour of the pelvic floor.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o1760"></a>15. At birth the exstrophy patient should have the umbilical cord secured with silk rather than an umbilical clamp to prevent trauma to the exposed bladder, and the bladder should be covered with a nonadherent film to minimize trauma and prevent desiccation of the bladder mucosa.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o1765"></a>16. Bladder spasms must be controlled in the postoperative period following closure of the exstrophy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o1770"></a>17. Patients with epispadias may have associated vesicoureteral reflux and inguinal hernias, although the incidence is not as high as it is in bladder exstrophy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o1775"></a>18. The factor most likely to cause long-term disability in the reconstructed cloacal exstrophy patient is the associated neurologic deficit.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o1780"></a>19. The basic defect in exstrophy is an abnormal overdevelopment of the cloacal membrane, preventing medial migration of the mesenchymal tissue and proper lower abdominal wall development.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o1785"></a>20. Anterior corporal length in male patients with bladder exstrophy is almost 50% shorter than that of healthy control participants.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o1790"></a>21. Bladder neck repair usually occurs when the child is 4 to 5 years old; has an adequate bladder capacity; and, most important, is ready to participate in a postoperative voiding program.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o1795"></a>22. In a closed exstrophy patient, recurrent urinary tract infections should prompt evaluation for erosion of the anterior pubic stitch into the bladder or urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o1800"></a>23. A majority of bladder neck failures require eventual augmentation or continent diversion.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o1805"></a>24. At birth, most recommend assigning gender that is consistent with karyotypic makeup of the individual if at all possible.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh Urology</span>, <span class="italic">12th Edition</span>, on the <a>Expert Consult website</a>.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_97"></span><span id="pagebreak_98"></span><span id="pagebreak_99"></span><span id="pagebreak_100"></span><span id="pagebreak_101"></span><span id="pagebreak_102"></span>
</body>
</html>
