<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0133"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">133</div>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699001336">Genital and Lower Urinary Tract Trauma</h1>
<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Allen F. Morey, and Jay Simhan</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Key words</h3>
<div class="keywords">bladder; penis; scrotum; trauma; urethra</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
    <iframe src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch133_assessments.xhtml" height="700"></iframe>
<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0095">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0535"></a>1. Penile fracture generally occurs at the base of the penis in a ventrolateral location where the tunica albuginea is thinnest.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0540"></a>2. If the location of the penile fracture is evident, a vertical ventral penile incision over the injury may be used thus avoiding a degloving incision. If the location of the injury is uncertain or there is an associated urethral injury, a distal circumcising incision should be made; if this incision is used in an uncircumcised patient, a limited circumcision should be performed before closure to prevent persistent edema of the foreskin.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0545"></a>3. Dog bites of the penis are treated with copious irrigation, debridement, and primary closure. Human bites should be irrigated, debrided, treated with antibiotics, and left open.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0550"></a>4. A fractured testis should be explored and repaired because the salvage rate is higher than when conservative nonoperative therapy is used.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0555"></a>5. Ninety percent of bladder ruptures are associated with pelvic fractures; 10% of pelvic fractures are associated with a bladder rupture.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0560"></a>6. Noncomplicated extraperitoneal bladder ruptures may be treated with urethral catheter drainage alone.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0565"></a>7. The bulbomembranous junction is more vulnerable to injury during pelvic fracture than is the prostatomembranous junction; thus the external sphincter is often intact. In children, urethral disruptions generally occur at the bladder neck. In females, the urethral avulsion usually occurs proximally.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0570"></a>8. In females, urethral disruptions should be primarily repaired and vaginal lacerations should be closed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0575"></a>9. Initial suprapubic cystostomy is the standard of care for major straddle injuries involving the urethra.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0580"></a>10. When intraperitoneal bladder laceration occurs after blunt trauma, a large laceration of the bladder dome is usually produced that predisposes to urinary ascites and/or peritonitis if it is not repaired promptly.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0585"></a>11. CT cystogram must be performed via retrograde distention of the bladder with a dilute contrast medium. A drainage film is required to complete a plain film cystogram.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0590"></a>12. Flexible cystoscopy performed at the time of surgical exploration is the simplest and most sensitive means to assess for urethral injury.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0595"></a>13. In posterior urethral disruptions, patients may undergo urethral realignment or immediate suprapubic tube placement with planned delayed urethroplasty. Patients undergoing urethral realignment are at high risk for developing stricture recurrence.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</section>
</section>
</section><span id="s0010"></span><span id="s0015"></span><span id="pagebreak_514"></span><span id="pagebreak_515"></span>
</body>
</html>
