<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Campbell-Walsh-Wein Urology Twelfth Edition Review</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../style/media.css" />
  

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="c0003"></a>
<header>
<div id="CN">3</div>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chaptitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323639699000033">Urinary Tract Imaging</h1>
</hgroup>
<h2 class="chapsubt" epub:type="subtitle" id="subtitle0010">Basic Principles of CT, MRI, and Plain Film Imaging</h2>

<address>
<div class="chapau" id="augrp0010">Jay T. Bishoff, and Ardeshir R. Rastinehad</div>
</address>
</header>
<section>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0010">Key Words</h3>
<div class="keywords">contrast media; conventional radiography; intravenous urography; plain abdominal radiograph; radiation protection</div>
</section>
<section>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>

<iframe id="ln0165" src="../../widgets/MCMS/xhtml/ch003_assessments.xhtml" height="650"></iframe>

<div>

<div class="boxg1" id="b0010">
<p></p>
<div class="b1title" epub:type="title" id="title5050">Chapter Review</div>
<div id="bpar0010"></div>
<div>
<ul class="ce_list" id="olist0115">
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0015">
<a id="o0605"></a>1. Absorbed dose for therapy is measured in units called gray (Gy); 1 rad = 0.01 Gy, or 1 centigray (cGy) = 1 rad.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0020">
<a id="o0610"></a>2. The amount of energy absorbed by a tissue for diagnostic purposes is referred to as the equivalent dose and is measured in sieverts (Sv). Exposure of the eyes and gonads to radiation has a more significant biologic impact than exposure of other parts of the body. The occupational safety limit is 50 mSv. Exposure time during fluoroscopy should be minimized by the use of short bursts of fluoroscopy; positioning the image intensifier as close to the patient as feasible substantially reduces scatter radiation.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0025">
<a id="o0615"></a>3. There are four basic types of iodinated contrast media: (1) ionic monomer, (2) nonionic monomer, (3) ionic dimer, (4) nonionic dimer.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0030">
<a id="o0620"></a>4. IA reactions are potentially fatal, are not dose dependent, and are more common in patients with a history of adverse reactions to contrast media, those with asthma or diabetes, those with impaired renal and cardiac function, and those on β-adrenergic blockers.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0035">
<a id="o0625"></a>5. It is common to have nausea, flushing, pruritus, urticaria, headache, and occasionally emesis after administration of contrast media.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0040">
<a id="o0630"></a>6. Patients at high risk for adverse allergic reactions should be medicated with steroids, given 12 to 24 hours before the injection of contrast media, as well as antihistamines.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0045">
<a id="o0635"></a>7. For retrograde pyelography, it is useful to dilute contrast media by half with sterile saline, which facilitates identifying filling defects in the collecting system. There is a low <span id="pagebreak_8"></span><span id="pagebreak_9"></span><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="10" id="pagebreak_10"></span>
<a id="pg10"></a>risk of contrast reactions in patients in whom a retrograde or loopogram is performed.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0050">
<a id="o0640"></a>8. Metformin does not need to be held before contrast administration in a patient with normal renal function and no comorbidities.</li>
<li class="b1numlist" id="bpar0055">
<a id="o0645"></a>9. The risk of developing contrast-induced nephropathy is increased in patients with decreased renal function (GFR &lt; 60 mL/min), diabetes mellitus, dehydration, advanced age, congestive heart failure, liver disease, and cardiac ejection fraction less than 40%.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0060">
<a id="o0650"></a>10. TcDTPA is primarily filtered by the glomerulus. It is a good agent to assess renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0065">
<a id="o0655"></a>11. Because TcDMSA is both filtered by the glomerulus and secreted by the proximal tubule, it localizes in the renal cortex and is a good agent for assessing cortical scarring and ectopic renal tissue.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0070">
<a id="o0660"></a>12. TcMAG3 is cleared mainly by tubular secretion; it has a limited ability to access renal function.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0075">
<a id="o0665"></a>13. A T<sub>½</sub> less than 10 minutes suggests an unobstructed system. A T<sub>½</sub> greater than 20 minutes is consistent with renal obstruction.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0080">
<a id="o0670"></a>14. A positive bone scan is not specific for cancer. Moreover, the volume of cancer cannot be quantitated on bone scan. Patients with widely metastatic disease may have diffuse uptake (hyper scan) and no discrete lesions.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0085">
<a id="o0675"></a>15. Glucose, choline, and amino acids have been used as imaging agents for PET scans.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0090">
<a id="o0680"></a>16. <sup>18</sup>F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is used as an imaging agent in PET scanning and takes advantage of the fact that tumors have increased glycolysis and decreased dephosphorylation. This scan is useful in testicular germ cell tumors, particularly seminomas, in determining residual viable tumor following chemotherapy.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0095">
<a id="o0685"></a>17. The Hounsfield units scale assigns a value of <span>−</span>1000 Hounsfield units for air. Dense bone is assigned a value of +1000 Hounsfield units, and water is assigned 0 Hounsfield units.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0100">
<a id="o0690"></a>18. With the exception of some indinavir stones, all renal and ureteral calculi may be detected by helical CT.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0105">
<a id="o0695"></a>19. The advantage of MRI is high-contrast resolution of soft tissue on T1-weighted images. Fluid has a low signal and appears dark on T1-weighted images; on T2-weighted images, fluid has a high signal and appears bright. Gadolinium increases the brightness of T1-weighted images. Hemorrhage within a cyst results in a high signal on T1-weighted images. MRI is the imaging modality of choice for patients with iodine contrast allergies.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0110">
<a id="o0700"></a>20. The risk of developing NSF after gadolinium administration is increased in patients with GFRs less than 30 mL/min.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0115">
<a id="o0705"></a>21. Adrenal adenomas have high lipid content and may be differentiated from adrenal cancers or metastatic disease by specialized CT or MRI scans.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0120">
<a id="o0710"></a>22. Thirty-five percent of pheochromocytomas do not enhance on T2-weighted images.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0125">
<a id="o0715"></a>23. MRI and CT are excellent imaging studies to determine the presence and extent of renal vein and vena cava tumor thrombus. Uptake of gadolinium by the thrombus on MRI differentiates tumor from bland (blood clot) thrombus.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0130">
<a id="o0720"></a>24. Prostate MRI coupled with an assessment of dynamic contrast uptake and washout increases the diagnostic accuracy for detecting cancer.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0135">
<a id="o0725"></a>25. MR spectroscopy for prostate cancer is based on decreased citrate levels and increased creatine and choline levels.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0140">
<a id="o0730"></a>26. Bladder filling in patients with spinal cord injuries higher than T6 may precipitate autonomic dysreflexia.</li>
<li class="b1numlista" id="bpar0145">
<a id="o0735"></a>27. Radiation exposure diminishes as the square of the distance from the radiation source.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</section>
<footer>
<section epub:type="footnotes">
<div class="ftnote">
<hr />
<p class="ftnote1" id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
<sup>
<a href="#cfn1">a</a><span id="cfn1"></span>
</sup> <a id="ntpara0010"></a>Sources referenced can be found in <span class="italic">Campbell-Walsh Urology, 12th Edition,</span> on the Expert Consult website.</p>
</div>
</section>
</footer>
</section>
</section><span id="s0015"></span>
</body>
</html>
